=pod

=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

B<ofx2qif> - convert OFX files to QIF format

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<ofx2qif> I<path_to_ofx_file/ofx_filename> > I<output_filename.qif>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<ofx2qif> is a OFX "file" to QIF (Quicken Interchange Format)
converter.  It was written as a second code example, and as a way for LibOFX
to immediately provide something useful, and to give people a reason to try
the library.  It is not recommended that financial software use the
output of this utility for OFX support.  The QIF file format is very
primitive, and much information is lost.  The utility currently supports
every transaction tags of the QIF format except the address lines, and supports
many of the !Account tags.  It should generate QIF files that will import 
successfully in just about every software with QIF support.

=head1 OPTIONS

This program does not accept any command-line options.

=head1 CAVEATS

The libofx maintainer does not plan on improving this utility much
further, but contributions and patches are gladly accepted. If you are
interested in hacking on B<ofx2qif>, links to QIF documentation are available
on the LibOFX home page.

Note that all error output is disabled by default.

=head1 AUTHOR

Benoit Grégoire <benoitg@coeus.ca>

=head1 HISTORY

B<ofx2qif> is meant to be the C code example and demo of the libofx library.
It uses many of the functions and structures of the LibOFX API.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

B<ofx2qif> is Copyright 2002 by Benoit Grégoire <benoitg@coeus.ca>.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify  
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.       

This manual page was written for the Debian GNU/Linux distribution because
the original program does not have a manual page.

This manual page was written by Bryan Donlan <bdonlan@gmail.com>, for
the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others). As portions of this
manual page are derived from source code comments, this manual page is also
licensed under the terms above.

=head1 SEE ALSO

ofxdump(1), ofxconnect(1)

L<http://libofx.sourceforge.net/>

=cut
