.TH "ASSISTANT-QT4" 1 "4.5.2" "Nokia Corporation and/or its subsidiary(-ies)" \" -*- nroff -*-
.SH NAME
assistant-qt4 \- on\-line documentation browser for Qt4
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B assistant [options]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This page documents the
.B Qt Assistant
from the Qt application framework, which is typically used to display the Qt Reference Documentation.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I "\-collectionFile file"
Uses the specified collection file instead of the default one.
.TP
.I "\-showUrl url"
Shows the document with the url.
.TP
.I "\-enableRemoteControl"
Enables Assistant to be remotely controlled.
.TP
.I "\-show widget"
Shows the specified dockwidget which can be "contents", "index", "bookmarks" or "search".
.TP
.I "\-activate widget"
Activates the specified dockwidget which can be "contents", "index", "bookmarks" or "search".
.TP
.I "\-hide widget"
Hides the specified dockwidget which can be "contents", "index" "bookmarks" or "search".
.TP
.I "\-register helpFile"
Registers the specified help file (.qch) in the given collection file.
.TP
.I "\-unregister helpFile"
Unregisters the specified help file (.qch) from the give collection file.
.TP
.I "\-setCurrentFilter filter"
Set the filter as the active filter.
.TP
.I "\-quiet"
Does not display any error or status message.
.TP
.I "-help"
Displays a help message.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR /usr/share/qt4/doc/html/assistant-manual.html,
.BR http://doc.trolltech.com
.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by Brian Nelson <pyro@debian.org> based on the output of
.B "assistant -help".
Frederik Schwarzer <schwarzerf@gmail.com> updated it to Qt 4.5.2.
