Hi,

I just wanted to install git-annex via cabal, as described in the install document. More specifically, I did this on my Ubuntu Lucid box:

    andreas@antares:~$ sudo aptitude install cabal-install
    [...]
    andreas@antares:~$ cabal update
    andreas@antares:~$ cabal install quickcheck --bindir=$HOME/bin
    andreas@antares:~$ cabal install git-annex -v --bindir=$HOME/bin

However, I got this error:

    /usr/bin/ghc --numeric-version
    looking for package tool: ghc-pkg near compiler in /usr/bin
    found package tool in /usr/bin/ghc-pkg
    /usr/bin/ghc-pkg --version
    /usr/bin/ghc --supported-languages
    Reading installed packages...
    /usr/bin/ghc-pkg dump --global
    /usr/bin/ghc-pkg dump --user
    Reading available packages...
    Resolving dependencies...
    selecting
    cabal: cannot configure git-annex-3.20120113. It requires quickcheck >=2.1
    There is no available version of quickcheck that satisfies >=2.1

which is really strange, because quickcheck 2.4.2 is installed:

    andreas@antares:~$ ls -a .cabal/lib/
    .  ..  QuickCheck-2.4.2

Any help is greatly appreciated :)
Andreas.

> QuickCheck has to be spelled in mixed case. --[[Joey]] 

Sorry to disagree, this doesn't fix my problem. cabal still complains that no version >= 2.1 is available, even though 2.4.2 is installed. This problem already occurred before I explicitly installed QuickCheck. According to [[install]], the `cabal install git-annex -v --bindir=$HOME/bin` should already take care of the dependencies.

>> You need to `cabal update` to get the fixed version of git-annex which
>> spells QuickCheck correctly. [[done]] --[[Joey]]
