What steps will reproduce the problem?

Using the assistant, create an SSH remote.  Try to use an alias as the name
of the remote (e.g. I have a server which I have aliased to "homeworld" in
my .ssh/config.  When I'm at home, that is an alias for 192.168.1.253.
When I'm not at home, I edit .ssh/config so that "homeworld" becomes an
alias for a hostname at no-ip.com.)  Despite the fact that "homeworld" is a
viable ssh target because of the alias, the assistant doesn't recognize it
as a valid host to ssh to.

I had trouble with an ip address the first time I tried it but just tried it again and it worked fine, so please disregard that part of the title of this bug report.


What is the expected output? What do you see instead?

expected output = move to the "create a repository -- rsync or regular" page.
observed output = "cannot resolve host name"


What version of git-annex are you using? On what operating system?

 Version: 3.20130102 OS X Lion


Please provide any additional information below.

I realize this is kind of a power user whine.  Using an ssh alias which
does not correspond to an actual resolvable hostname (and cannot, because
it's supposed to be a layer of indirection over the hostname) is not an
everyday problem for an average user.

> The assistant tries to resolve the hostname explicitly
> to catch user's typos, and also expands it to a FQDN, to make
> it more likely to be able to reach the host when roaming to other
> networks.
> 
> Also, the assistant sets up it *own* .ssh/config hostname alias,
> in order to make it use the special ssh key that it generates for the host.
> So that is not compatable with using a ssh host alias you've set up.
> Even if it knew about your alias, it would set up a new hostname alias, and
> whatever machinery you have to update the alias would not work.
>  
> You can, of course, add git remotes using any ssh alias you like, by
> hand, and restart the assistant and it will use them. --[[Joey]]

[[!tag /design/assistant]]
