What steps will reproduce the problem?

I downloaded the most recent OS X Lion build of the Git Annex application bundle and ran it.

I wanted to test the direct mode, as my existing annex is in the old style.
So I set up a new (direct) repository, then added an SSH remote, then dropped a large number of files (170) in there.


What is the expected output? What do you see instead?

Expected: the files will be added to the repository in direct mode and stored on the ssh remote.
Instead: the following error appeared in the webapp: 
 
Committer crashed: /Users/ed/directannex/.git/annex/tmp/: openTempFile: resource exhausted (Too many open files)

nothing seems to have been synced to the remote -- I gather this from the fact that the annex directory in the remote git repo is only 70K instead of several hundred megs.


What version of git-annex are you using? On what operating system?

 Version: 3.20130102  on OS X lion, using the version bundled as an application bundle.


Please provide any additional information below.

I imagine I could avoid this error by using the "ulimit -n" command to increase number of files in a shell session and then running assistant manually, so this is really only a bug report about the bundled application.

> This seems to be caused by Command.Add.lockdown not closing the
> temporary file handle, so when called in a mapM by the committer
> thread when there are a lot of files, it could build up a lot of
> open handles before later GC closes them. Added a manual close,
> so I think this is [[done]]. --[[Joey]]
