Hi!

Using bup for storing seems a good idea to save space, but I still have a problem when trying to copy files to my local git repo.
I have two partitions:

- /Data (NTFS)

- / (ext4)

I turned the directory /Data/Audio into a git-annex repo, and cloned it into /home/me/AudioClone.
I added the remote bup to AudioClone by doing:

    git annex initremote mybup type=bup encryption=none buprepo=

But when I try to copy some files that I have previously got by "git annex get" by doing:

    [~/AudioClone]$ git annex copy someartist/somealbum --to mybup

it fails and tells me:

    copy Order To Die/01 Morituri Te Salutant.flac (to mybup...) 
    fatal: Cannot lock the ref 'refs/heads/WORM-s7351771-m1318841909--01 Morituri Te Salutant.flac'.
    Traceback (most recent call last):
      File "/usr/lib/bup/cmd/bup-split", line 170, in <module>
        git.update_ref(refname, commit, oldref)
      File "/usr/lib/bup/bup/git.py", line 835, in update_ref
        _git_wait('git update-ref', p)
      File "/usr/lib/bup/bup/git.py", line 930, in _git_wait
        raise GitError('%s returned %d' % (cmd, rv))
    bup.git.GitError: git update-ref returned 128

for each file, **except for the album cover file**, which is a simple JPG that bup doesn't try to split. This one gets copied nicely but the big FLAC files don't.

I tried to restart my session, in case bup adds my username to a group or something.

(I'm using Ubuntu 11.10)

> Apparently bup-split does not allow storing data using filenames with
> spaces in them. I can reproduce the same bug using the same filename;
> if I remove the spaces all is well.
> 
> Since bup-split -n uses git branches, I guess git-annex needs to avoid
> giving it any names containing spaces, or anything else not allowed
> in a git branch name. The rules for legal git branch names are quite complex
> (see git-check-ref-format(1)) so it will take me some times to code
> this up.
> 
> A workaround is to switch to the SHA256 backend
> (`git annex migrate --backend=SHA256`), which avoids spaces in its keys.
> --[[Joey]]

>> Now fixed in git. [[done]] --[[Joey]] 
