Make test fails when git doesn't know what identity to give to commits

<pre>

Testing 1:blackbox:0:git-annex init
Cases: 30  Tried: 7  Errors: 0  Failures: 0
*** Please tell me who you are.

Run

  git config --global user.email "you@example.com"
  git config --global user.name "Your Name"

to set your account's default identity.
Omit --global to set the identity only in this repository.

fatal: empty ident  <jtang@lenny.localdomain> not allowed
### Failure in: 1:blackbox:0:git-annex init
init failed
Testing 1:blackbox:1:git-annex add:0
Cases: 30  Tried: 8  Errors: 0  Failures: 1
*** Please tell me who you are.
</pre>

I guess most users testing git-annex probably have a .gitconfig sitting in their home directories already so the above never cropped up. This failure was initially found in a clean and fresh install of a virtual machine with archlinux and repeated again on my archlinux laptop.

Update: I pulled the master on my rhel5 test machine and moved my .gitconfig out of the way, the tests passes and continues but I still get a "warning message" from git. 

<pre>
Testing 1:blackbox:3:git-annex unannex:1:with content                         
Cases: 30  Tried: 12  Errors: 0  Failures: 0[master fce0cde] content removed from git annex
 Committer: Jimmy Tang <jtang@removed.removed.tcd.ie>
Your name and email address were configured automatically based
on your username and hostname. Please check that they are accurate.
You can suppress this message by setting them explicitly:

    git config --global user.name "Your Name"
    git config --global user.email you@example.com

After doing this, you may fix the identity used for this commit with:

    git commit --amend --reset-author

 2 files changed, 1 insertions(+), 2 deletions(-)
 delete mode 120000 foo
</pre>

I guess it also depends a bit on how git figures out who it is is committing and how the machine in question is configured with hostnames and domain names.

> Fixed that. [[done]] --[[Joey]] 
