What steps will reproduce the problem?

Run:

    cabal install git-annex

What is the expected output? What do you see instead?

The current output is the following:

    $ cabal install git-annex        
    Resolving dependencies...    
    Configuring certificate-1.3.2...
    Building certificate-1.3.2...
    Preprocessing library certificate-1.3.2...
    [ 1 of 10] Compiling Data.Certificate.KeyDSA ( Data/Certificate/KeyDSA.hs, dist/build/Data/Certificate/KeyDSA.o )
    [ 2 of 10] Compiling Data.Certificate.KeyRSA ( Data/Certificate/KeyRSA.hs, dist/build/Data/Certificate/KeyRSA.o )
    
    Data/Certificate/KeyRSA.hs:64:27:
        `RSA.private_pub' is not a (visible) field of constructor `RSA.PrivateKey'
    cabal: Error: some packages failed to install:
    DAV-0.3 depends on certificate-1.3.2 which failed to install.
    authenticate-1.3.2 depends on certificate-1.3.2 which failed to install.
    certificate-1.3.2 failed during the building phase. The exception was:
    ExitFailure 1
    git-annex-3.20130107 depends on certificate-1.3.2 which failed to install.
    http-conduit-1.8.6.3 depends on certificate-1.3.2 which failed to install.
    http-reverse-proxy-0.1.1.1 depends on certificate-1.3.2 which failed to install.
    tls-1.0.3 depends on certificate-1.3.2 which failed to install.
    tls-extra-0.5.1 depends on certificate-1.3.2 which failed to install.
    yesod-1.1.7.2 depends on certificate-1.3.2 which failed to install.
    yesod-auth-1.1.3 depends on certificate-1.3.2 which failed to install.

I'd rather get a message stating how awesome the software I just installed is. :)

What version of git-annex are you using? On what operating system?

  * Debian (testing)
  * GHC 7.4.1
  * Cabal 1.14.0, cabal-install 0.14.0
  * cabal list git-annex says the installing version is: 3.20130107

Please provide any additional information below.

The certificate package version 1.3.2 does not seem to install properly with
this version of GHC (I think).

Version 1.3.3 solves the issue. I don't know if there is a way for me to
override the dependency tree to try to force the version update with
cabal-install, so maybe it's worth filing a bug.

Thanks a lot for git-annex.

> Welcome to cabal hell! This problem is why haskell's cabal system is not
> a sufficient way for users to install git-annex, and we have to provide
> prebuilt builds.
> 
> No change to git-annex can fix this problem. The problem is that
> the old version of certificate got busted by some change to one of its
> dependencies, and several libraries that git-annex depends on have not
> yet been updated to use the new version of certificate. Once those
> libraries get updated, it'll fix itself.
> 
> [[done]]; not git-annex bug. --[[Joey]]
