As I prepare to dive back into development, now is a good time to review
what I've built so far, and how well I'm keeping up with my planned
[[roadmap|assistant]].

I started working two and a half months ago, so am nearing the end of
the three months I originally asked to be funded for on Kickstarter.

I've built much of what I planned to build in the first three months --
[[inotify]] is done (and kqueue is basically working, but needs scalability
work), local [[syncing]] is done, the [[webapp]] works, and I've built some
of the first [[configurators]]. It's all functional in a narrow use case
involving syncing to removable drives. 

[[progressbars]] still need to be dealt with, and network syncing needs to
be revisited soon, so that I can start building easy configurators for
further use cases, like using the cloud, or another machine on the local
network.

I think I'm a little behind my original schedule, but not too bad,
and at the same time, I think I've built things rather more solidly than I
expected them to be at this point. I'm particularly happy with how well
the inotify code works, no matter what is thrown at it, and how nice
the UI in the webapp is shaping up to be.

----

I also need to get started on fulfilling my Kickstarter rewards, and
I was happy to spend some time in the airport working on the main
blocker toward that, a lack of a scalable git-annex logo, which is needed
for printing on swag.

Turns out that inkscape has some amazing bitmap tracing capabilities.
I was able to come up with this scalable logo in short order, it 
actually took longer to add back the colors, as the tracer generated a
black and white version.

With that roadblock out of the way, I am moving toward ordering large
quantities of usb drives, etc.

[[logo.svg]]
