Dealt with post-release feedback deluge. There are a couple weird bugs that
I don't understand yet. OSX app is still not working everywhere.

----

Got the list of repositories in the webapp to update automatically when
repositories are added, including when syncing with a remote causes
repositories to be discovered.

----

I need a plan for the rest of the month. It feels right to focus on more
cloud storage support. Particularly because all the cloud providers
supported so far are ones that, while often being best of breed, also cost
money. To finish up the cloud story, need support for some free ones.

Looking at the results of the [[polls/prioritizing_special_remotes]]
poll, I suspect that free storage is a large part of why Google Drive got
so many votes. Soo, since there is not yet a Haskell library for Google
Drive, rather than spending a large chunk of time writing one, I hope to
use a [Haskell WebDAV library](http://hackage.haskell.org/package/DAV)
that my friend Clint recently wrote. A generic
WebDAV special remote in git-annex will provide much better support for
box.com (which has 5 to 50 gb free storage), as well as all the 
[OwnCloud providers](http://owncloud.org/providers/), at least one of which
provides 5 gb free storage.

If I have time left this month after doing that, I'd be inclined to do
Amazon Glacier. People have already gotten that working with git-annex, but
a proper special remote should be better/easier, and will allow integrating
support for it into the assistant, which should help deal with its long
retrieval delays. And since, if you have a lot of data
archived in Glacier, you will only want to pull out a few files at a time,
this is another place besides mobile phones where a [[partial_content]]
retrieval UI is needed. Which is on the roadmap to be worked on next
month-ish. Synergy, here I come. I hope.
