Putting together a shortlist of things I want to sort out before the beta.

* [[Progress bars|progressbars]] for file uploads.
* No mocked up parts in the webapp's UI. Think I implemented the last of
  those yesterday, although there are some unlinked repository configuration
  options.
* The basic watching functionality, should work reliably.
  There are some known scalability issues with eg,
  [[kqueue on OSX|bugs/Issue_on_OSX_with_some_system_limits]] that
  need to be dealt with, but needn't block a beta.
* Should keep any configuration of repositories that can be set up using
  the webapp in sync whenever it's possible to do so. I think that'll work
  after the past few days work.
* Should be easy to install and get running. Of course part of the point
  of the beta release is to get it out there, on Hackage, in Debian
  unstable, and in the other places that git-annex packagers put it.
  As to getting it running, the autostart files and menu items look good
  on Linux. The OSX equivilants still need work and testing.
* No howlingly bad bugs. [[This bug|bugs/pasting_into_annex_on_OSX]] is
  the one I'm most concerned with currently. OTOH, 
  [[bugs/watcher_commits_unlocked_files]] can be listed in the errata.

----

So I worked on progress bars for uploads today. Wrote a nice little
parser for rsync's progress output, that parses arbitrary size chunks,
returning any unparsable part. Added a ProgressCallback parameter to
all the backends' upload methods. Wrote a nasty thing that intercepts
rsync's output, currently a character at a time (horrible, but rsync
doesn't output that much, so surprisingly acceptable), and outputs it and
parses it. Hooked all this up, and got it working for uploads to
git remotes. That's 1/10th of the total ways uploads can happen that
have working progress bars. It'll take a while to fill in the rest..
