Decided to only make bare git repos on remote ssh servers. This
configurator is aimed at using a server somewhere, which is probably not
going to be running the assistant. So it doesn't need a non-bare repo, and
there's nothing to keep the checked out branch in a non-bare repo
up-to-date on such a server, anyway. For non-bare repos on locally
accessible boxes, the [[pairing]] configurator will be the thing
to use, instead of this one.

Note: While the remote ssh configurator works great, and you could even have the
assistant running on multiple computers and use it to point them all at the
same repo on a server, the assistant does not yet support keeping such a
network topology in sync. That needs some of the ideas in [[cloud]] to
happen, so clients can somehow inform each other when there are changes.
Until that happens, the assistant polls only every 30 minutes, so it'll
keep in sync with a 30 minute delay.

---

This configurator can also set up encryped rsync special remotes. Currently
it always encrypts them, using the shared cipher mode of git-annex's
encryption. That avoids issues with gpg key generation and distribution,
and was easy to get working.

---

I feel I'm in a good place now WRT adding repository configurator wizards
to the webapp. This one took about 2.5 days, and involved laying some
groundwork that will be useful for other repository configurators. And it
was probably one of the more complex ones. 

Now I should be able to crank out configurators for things like Amazon S3,
Bup, Rsync.net, etc fairly quickly. First, I need to do a beta release of
the assistant, and start getting feedback from my backers to prioritize
what to work on.
