Started work on the interface displayed when the webapp is started 
with no existing git-annex repository. All this needs to do is walk the user
through setting up a repository, as simply as possible.

A tricky part of this is that most of git-annex runs in the Annex monad,
which requires a git-annex repository. Luckily, much of the webapp
does not run in Annex, and it was pretty easy to work around the parts that
do. Dodged a bullet there.

There will, however, be a tricky transition from this first run webapp,
to a normally fully running git-annex assistant and webapp. I think the
first webapp will have to start up all the normal threads once it makes the
repository, and then redirect the user's web browser to the full webapp.

Anyway, the UI I've made is very simple: A single prompt, for the
directory where the repository should go. With, eventually, tab completion,
sanity checking (putting the repository in "/" is not good, and making it
all of "$HOME" is probably unwise).

[[!img screenshot/firstrun.png]]

Ideally most users will accept the default, which will be something
like `/home/username/Desktop/Annex`, and be through this step in seconds.

Suggestions for a good default directory name appreciated.. Putting it on a
folder that will appear on the desktop seems like a good idea, when there's
a Desktop directory. I'm unsure if I should name it something specific like
"GitAnnex", or something generic like "Synced".

Time for the first of probably many polls!

What should the default directory name used by the git-annex assistant be?

[[!poll open=no 19 "Annex" 7 "GitAnnex" 1 "~/git-annex/" 10 "Synced" 0 "AutoSynced" 1 "Shared" 10 "something lowercase!" 1 "CowboyNeal" 1 "Annexbox"]]

(Note: This is a wiki. You can edit this page to add your own
[[ikiwiki/directive/poll]] options!)

[[!tag polls]]
