.\" Manual Page for Berkely DB utils, created from upstream
.\" documentation by Thijs Kinkhorst <thijs@kinkhorst.com>.
.TH BERKELEY_DB5.1_SVC 1 "28 January 2005"
.SH NAME
berkeley_db5.1_svc \- Berkeley DB RPC server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B berkeley_db5.1_svc
[-Vv] [-h home] [-I seconds] [-L file] [-t seconds] [-T seconds]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The berkeley_db5.1_svc utility is the Berkeley DB RPC server.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP \fB\-h\fR
Add the specified home directory to the list of allowed home directories
that can be specified by the client.  The home directory should be an
absolute pathname.  The last component of each home directory specified
must be unique because that is how clients specify which database environment
they want to join.
.sp
Recovery will be run on each specified environment before the server
begins accepting requests from clients.  For this reason, only one copy
of the server program should ever be run at any time because recovery
must always be single-threaded.
.IP \fB\-I\fR
Set the default idle timeout for client environments to the specified
number of seconds.  The default timeout is 24 hours.
.IP \fB\-L\fR
Log the execution of the berkeley_db5.1_svc utility to the specified file in the
following format, where \fI###\fR is the process ID, and the date
is the time the utility was started.
.sp
berkeley_db5.1_svc: ### Wed Jun 15 01:23:45 EDT 1995
.sp
This file will be removed if the berkeley_db5.1_svc utility exits gracefully.
.IP \fB\-t\fR
Set the default timeout for client resources (idle transactions and
cursors) to the specified number of seconds.  When the timeout expires,
if the resource is a transaction, it is aborted; if the resource is a
cursor, it is closed.  The default timeout is 5 minutes.
.IP \fB\-T\fR
Set the maximum timeout allowed for client resources.  The default
timeout is 20 minutes.  If a client application requests a server
timeout greater than the maximum timeout set for this server, the
client's timeout will be capped at the maximum timeout value.
.IP \fB\-V\fR
Write the library version number to the standard output, and exit.
.IP \fB\-v\fR
Run in verbose mode.
.PP
The berkeley_db5.1_svc utility exits 0 on success, and >0 if an error occurs.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.IP \fBDB_HOME\fR
If the \fB-h\fR option is not specified and the environment variable
DB_HOME is set, it is used as the path of the database home, as described
in DB_ENV->open.
.SH AUTHORS
Sleepycat Software, Inc. This manual page was created based on
the HTML documentation for berkeley_db_svc from Sleepycat,
by Thijs Kinkhorst <thijs@kinkhorst.com>,
for the Debian system (but may be used by others).
