.\" Manual Page for Berkely DB utils, created from upstream
.\" documentation by Thijs Kinkhorst <thijs@kinkhorst.com>.
.TH DB5.1_VERIFY 1 "28 January 2005"
.SH NAME
db5.1_verify \-  Verifies the structure databases
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B db5.1_verify
[-NoqV] [-h home] [-P password] file ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
The db5.1_verify utility verifies the structure of one or more files and the
databases they contain.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP \fB\-h\fR
Specify a home directory for the database environment; by
default, the current working directory is used.
.IP \fB\-o\fR
Skip the database checks for btree and duplicate sort order and for
hashing.
.sp
If the file being verified contains databases with non-default
comparison or hashing configurations, calling the db5.1_verify
utility without the \fB-o\fR flag will usually return failure.  The
\fB-o\fR flag causes db5.1_verify to ignore database sort or
hash ordering and allows db5.1_verify to be used on these files.
To fully verify these files, verify them explicitly using the
DB->verify method, after configuring the correct comparison or hashing
functions.
.IP \fB\-N\fR
Do not acquire shared region mutexes while running.  Other problems,
such as potentially fatal errors in Berkeley DB, will be ignored as well.
This option is intended only for debugging errors, and should not be
used under any other circumstances.
.IP \fB\-P\fR
Specify an environment password.  Although Berkeley DB utilities overwrite
password strings as soon as possible, be aware there may be a window of
vulnerability on systems where unprivileged users can see command-line
arguments or where utilities are not able to overwrite the memory
containing the command-line arguments.
.IP \fB\-q\fR
Suppress the printing of any error descriptions, simply exit success or
failure.
.IP \fB\-V\fR
Write the library version number to the standard output, and exit.
.PP
\fBThe db5.1_verify utility does not perform any locking, even in
Berkeley DB environments that are configured with a locking subsystem.  As
such, it should only be used on files that are not being modified by
another thread of control.\fR
.PP
The db5.1_verify utility may be used with a Berkeley DB environment (as described for the
\fB-h\fR option, the environment variable \fBDB_HOME\fR, or
because the utility was run in a directory containing a Berkeley DB
environment).  In order to avoid environment corruption when using a
Berkeley DB environment, db5.1_verify should always be given the chance to
detach from the environment and exit gracefully.  To cause db5.1_verify
to release all environment resources and exit cleanly, send it an
interrupt signal (SIGINT).
.PP
The db5.1_verify utility exits 0 on success, and >0 if an error occurs.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.IP \fBDB_HOME\fR
If the \fB-h\fR option is not specified and the environment variable
DB_HOME is set, it is used as the path of the database home, as described
in DB_ENV->open.
.SH AUTHORS
Sleepycat Software, Inc. This manual page was created based on
the HTML documentation for db_verify from Sleepycat,
by Thijs Kinkhorst <thijs@kinkhorst.com>,
for the Debian system (but may be used by others).
