.\" Manual Page for Berkely DB utils, created from upstream
.\" documentation by Thijs Kinkhorst <thijs@kinkhorst.com>.
.TH DB5.1_PRINTLOG 1 "28 January 2005"
.SH NAME
db5.1_printlog \- Dumps Berkeley DB log files in a human-readable format
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B db5.1_printlog
[-NrV] [-b start-LSN] [-e stop-LSN] [-h home] [-P password]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The db5.1_printlog utility is a debugging utility that dumps Berkeley DB log files
in a human-readable format.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP \fB\-b\fR
Display log records starting at log sequence number (LSN) \fBstart-LSN\fR;
\fBstart-LSN\fR is specified as a file number, followed by a slash (/)
character, followed by an offset number, with no intervening whitespace.
.IP \fB\-e\fR
Stop displaying log records at log sequence number (LSN) \fBstop-LSN\fR;
\fBstop-LSN\fR is specified as a file number, followed by a slash (/)
character, followed by an offset number, with no intervening whitespace.
.IP \fB\-h\fR
Specify a home directory for the database environment; by
default, the current working directory is used.
.IP \fB\-N\fR
Do not acquire shared region mutexes while running.  Other problems,
such as potentially fatal errors in Berkeley DB, will be ignored as well.
This option is intended only for debugging errors, and should not be
used under any other circumstances.
.IP \fB\-P\fR
Specify an environment password.  Although Berkeley DB utilities overwrite
password strings as soon as possible, be aware there may be a window of
vulnerability on systems where unprivileged users can see command-line
arguments or where utilities are not able to overwrite the memory
containing the command-line arguments.
.IP \fB\-r\fR
Read the log files in reverse order.
.IP \fB\-V\fR
Write the library version number to the standard output, and exit.
.PP
The db5.1_printlog utility uses a Berkeley DB environment (as described for the
\fB-h\fR option, the environment variable \fBDB_HOME\fR, or
because the utility was run in a directory containing a Berkeley DB
environment).  In order to avoid environment corruption when using a
Berkeley DB environment, db5.1_printlog should always be given the chance to
detach from the environment and exit gracefully.  To cause db5.1_printlog
to release all environment resources and exit cleanly, send it an
interrupt signal (SIGINT).
.PP
The db5.1_printlog utility exits 0 on success, and >0 if an error occurs.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.IP \fBDB_HOME\fR
If the \fB-h\fR option is not specified and the environment variable
DB_HOME is set, it is used as the path of the database home, as described
in DB_ENV->open.
.SH AUTHORS
Sleepycat Software, Inc. This manual page was created based on
the HTML documentation for db_printlog from Sleepycat,
by Thijs Kinkhorst <thijs@kinkhorst.com>,
for the Debian system (but may be used by others).
