git-annex 3.20130102 released with [[!toggle text="these changes"]]
[[!toggleable text="""
   * direct, indirect: New commands, that switch a repository to and from
     direct mode. In direct mode, files are accessed directly, rather than
     via symlinks. Note that direct mode is currently experimental. Many
     git-annex commands do not work in direct mode. Some git commands can
     cause data loss when used in direct mode repositories.
   * assistant: Now uses direct mode by default when setting up a new
     local repository.
   * OSX assistant: Uses the FSEvents API to detect file changes.
     This avoids issues with running out of file descriptors on large trees,
     as well as allowing detection of modification of files in direct mode.
     Other BSD systems still use kqueue.
   * kqueue: Fix bug that made broken symlinks not be noticed.
   * vicfg: Quote filename. Closes: #[696193](http://bugs.debian.org/696193)
   * Bugfix: Fixed bug parsing transfer info files, where the newline after
     the filename was included in it. This was generally benign, but in
     the assistant, it caused unexpected dropping of preferred content.
   * Bugfix: Remove leading \ from checksums output by sha*sum commands,
     when the filename contains \ or a newline. Closes: #[696384](http://bugs.debian.org/696384)
   * fsck: Still accept checksums with a leading \ as valid, now that
     above bug is fixed.
   * SHA*E backends: Exclude non-alphanumeric characters from extensions.
   * migrate: Remove leading \ in SHA* checksums, and non-alphanumerics
     from extensions of SHA*E keys."""]]