git-annex 3.20121211 released with [[!toggle text="these changes"]]
[[!toggleable text="""
   * webapp: Defaults to sharing box.com account info with friends, allowing
     one-click enabling of the repository.
   * Fix broken .config/git-annex/program installed by standalone tarball.
   * assistant: Retrival from glacier now handled.
   * Include ssh in standalone tarball and OSX app.
   * watch: Avoid leaving hard links to files behind in .git/annex/tmp
     if a file is deleted or moved while it's being quarantined in preparation
     to being added to the annex.
   * Allow `git annex drop --from web`; of course this does not remove
     any file from the web, but it does make git-annex remove all urls
     associated with a file.
   * webapp: S3 and Glacier forms now have a select list of all
     currently-supported AWS regions.
   * webdav: Avoid trying to set props, avoiding incompatability with
     livedrive.com. Needs DAV version 0.3.
   * webapp: Prettify error display.
   * webapp: Fix bad interaction between required fields and modals.
   * webapp: Added help buttons and links next to fields that require
     explanations.
   * webapp: Encryption can be disabled when setting up remotes.
   * assistant: Avoid trying to drop content from remotes that don't have it.
   * assistant: Allow periods in ssh key comments.
   * get/copy --auto: Transfer data even if it would exceed numcopies,
     when preferred content settings want it.
   * drop --auto: Fix dropping content when there are no preferred content
     settings.
   * webapp: Allow user to specify the port when setting up a ssh or rsync
     remote.
   * assistant: Fix syncing to just created ssh remotes.
   * Enable WebDAV support in Debian package. Closes: #[695532](http://bugs.debian.org/695532)"""]]