.TH INTERFACE\-ORDER "5" "18 May 2011" "resolvconf" "resolvconf"
.SH NAME
interface-order \- resolvconf configuration file
.SH DESCRIPTION
The file
.I /etc/resolvconf/interface-order
is used to control the order
in which
resolvconf nameserver information records
are processed
by those resolvconf update scripts
that consult this file.
(The name of the file is apt because
a resolvconf nameserver information record
is named after the interface with which it is associated.)
.PP
The file contains a sequence of shell glob patterns,
one per line.
The position of a record in the order
is the point at which its name first matches a pattern.
.PP
Patterns may not contain whitespace, slashes or initial dots or tildes.
Blank lines and lines beginning with a '#' are ignored.
.PP
Resolvconf update scripts in
.I /etc/resolvconf/update.d/
that consult this file include the current default versions of
.IR dnsmasq ,
.IR pdnsd
and
.IR libc .
(Actually they don't read the file directly;
they call the utility program
.I /lib/resolvconf/list-records
which lists records in the specified order
and omits the names of empty records.)
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
# /etc/resolvconf/interface-order
# Use nameservers on the loopback interface first.
lo*
# Next use records for Ethernet interfaces
eth*
# Next use records for Wi-Fi interfaces
wlan*
# Next use records for PPP interfaces
ppp*
# Last use other interfaces
*

.fi
.SH AUTHOR
Resolvconf was written by Thomas Hood <jdthood@gmail.com>.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2004, 2011 Thomas Hood
.br
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.  There is NO
warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR resolvconf (8)
