.TH RESOLVCONF "8" "3 Feb 2013" "resolvconf" "resolvconf"
.SH NAME
resolvconf \- manage nameserver information
.SH SYNOPSIS
cat \fIFILE\fR |
.B resolvconf
\fB\-a\fR \fIIFACE.PROG\fR
.PP
.B resolvconf
\fB\-d\fR \fIIFACE.PROG\fR
.PP
.B resolvconf
\fB\-u\fR
.PP
.B resolvconf
.B \-\-enable\-updates
|
.B \-\-disable\-updates
|
.B \-\-updates\-are\-enabled
.SH DESCRIPTION
The resolvconf package comprises a simple database
for run-time nameserver information
and a simple framework
for notifying applications of changes in that information.
Resolvconf thus sets itself up as the intermediary between programs that
supply nameserver information and applications that use 
that information.
.PP
Information is added to
or removed from
the database using the
.B resolvconf
program.
See the
.B OPTIONS
section below for a discussion of the available options.
.SH SUPPLIERS OF NAMESERVER INFORMATION
Normally the
.B resolvconf
program is run only by network interface configuration programs
such as
.BR ifup (8),
.BR ifdown ,
.BR NetworkManager (8),
.BR dhclient (8),
and
.BR pppd (8);
and by local nameservers such as
.BR dnsmasq (8).
These programs obtain nameserver information from some source
and push it to
.BR resolvconf .
.SS dhclient
The
.B dhclient 
program,
for example,
may receive nameserver addresses
and domain search list information 
during its negotiation with the DHCP server;
if so, its hook script
.I /etc/dhcp/dhclient\-enter\-hooks.d/resolvconf
pushes this information to 
.B resolvconf.
.SS ifup
The
.B ifup
program can be used to configure network interfaces
according to settings in
.IR /etc/network/interfaces .
To make 
.B ifup
push nameserver information to
.B resolvconf
when it configures an interface
the administrator must add
.B dns\-
option lines to the relevant
.B iface
stanza in
.IR interfaces (5).
The following option names are supported:
.BR dns\-nameservers ,
.BR dns\-search ,
and
.BR dns\-sortlist .  
The 
.B dns\-domain
option is deprecated in favor of
.BR dns\-search .
.PP
To add nameserver addresses, add a single line beginning with
.BR dns\-nameservers .
.PP
.EX
    dns\-nameservers 192.168.1.254 8.8.8.8
.EE
.PP
Note that one or more addresses can be given on this line,
separated by spaces,
and note the "s" at the end of the option name,
in contrast with the 
.IR resolv.conf (5)
option name
.BR nameserver .
.PP
To add search domain names, add a line beginning with
.BR dns\-search .
.PP
.EX
    dns\-search foo.org bar.com
.EE

The resulting stanza might look like the following example.
.PP
.EX
    iface eth0 inet static
        address 192.168.1.3
        netmask 255.255.255.0
        gateway 192.168.1.1
        dns\-nameservers 192.168.1.254 8.8.8.8
        dns\-search foo.org bar.com
.EE
.PP
N.B.: On a machine where resolvconf
has just been or is about to be installed
and which previously relied on a static
.I /etc/resolv.conf
file,
.IP \[bu]
the nameserver information in that static file,
(which is to say the information on
.BR nameserver ,
.BR domain ,
.B search
and
.B sortlist
lines)
should be migrated to the appropriate
.B iface
stanza(s) in
.IR /etc/network/interfaces (5)
as just described;
.IP \[bu]
options
(which is to say, any
.B options
lines)
should be migrated to
.IR /etc/resolvconf/resolv.conf.d/base .
.PP
.SS Command line
The administrator
.I can
run
.B resolvconf
from the command line to add or delete nameserver information,
but this is not normally necessary or advisable.
.SH CONSUMERS OF NAMESERVER INFORMATION
Nameserver information provided to
.B resolvconf
is stored for use by subscribers to
.BR resolvconf 's
notification service.
Subscriber packages that need to know when nameserver information has changed
should install a script in
.I /etc/resolvconf/update.d/
(or in
.IR /etc/resolvconf/update\-libc.d/ :
see below).
For example, DNS caches such as
.BR dnsmasq (8)
and
.BR pdnsd (8)
subscribe to the notification service so that they know
whither to forward queries.
Client hook scripts will find the files containing nameserver
information in the current directory.
.SS libc
The most important software package
that subscribes to the notification service
is the GNU C Library
.IR resolver (3).
This library is used by many applications
that need to resolve domain names.
When nameserver information is updated, the script
.I /etc/resolvconf/update.d/libc
generates a new version of the resolver configuration file,
.IR /etc/resolvconf/run/resolv.conf , 
as described below.
If the new version of the file differs
from the previously generated one
then the hook scripts found in
.IR /etc/resolvconf/update\-libc.d/ 
are executed.
.PP
The dynamically generated resolver configuration file
always starts with the contents of
.I /etc/resolvconf/resolv.conf.d/head
and ends with the contents of
.IR /etc/resolvconf/resolv.conf.d/tail .
Between
.I head
and
.I tail
the
.I libc
script inserts
dynamic nameserver information
compiled from,
first,
information provided for configured interfaces;
second,
static information from
.IR /etc/resolvconf/resolv.conf.d/base .
Specifically, it writes:
.IP "  1)" 5
up to three 
.B nameserver
lines,
ordered according to
.IR /etc/resolvconf/interface\-order ,
possibly fewer
if one of the addresses is a loopback address and the
.B TRUNCATE_NAMESERVER_LIST_AFTER_LOOPBACK_ADDRESS 
environment variable is affirmatively set, as discussed in the
.B ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
section;
.IP "  2)" 5
up to one
.B search
line containing the combined domain search list from all
"domain" and "search" input lines,
also ordered according to
.IR interface\-order (5);
.IP "  3)" 5
all other non-comment input lines.
.PP
To make the resolver use
this dynamically generated resolver configuration file
the administrator should ensure that
.I /etc/resolv.conf
is a symbolic link to
.IR /etc/resolvconf/run/resolv.conf .
This link is normally created on installation of the resolvconf package.
The link is never modified by the
.B resolvconf
program itself.
If you find that
.I /etc/resolv.conf
is not being updated,
please check to make sure that the link is intact.
.PP
The GNU C Library resolver library isn't the only resolver library available.
However, any resolver library that reads
.I /etc/resolv.conf
(and most of them do, in order to be compatible)
should work fine with resolvconf.
.PP
Subscriber packages that need to know only when the resolver configuration file
has changed should install a script in
.I /etc/resolvconf/update\-libc.d/
rather than in
.IR /etc/resolvconf/update.d/ .
(For example, two packages that install
.I update\-libc.d/
hook scripts are
.B fetchmail
and
.BR squid .)
This is important for synchronization purposes:
scripts in
.I update\-libc.d/
are run
.I after
.I resolv.conf
has been updated;
the same is not necessarily true of scripts in
.IR update.d/ .
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-a\fR \fIIFACE.PROG\fR
Add or overwrite the record
.I IFACE.PROG
then run the update scripts if updating is enabled.
When this option is used the information must be provided to
.B resolvconf
on its standard input in the format of the
.IR resolv.conf (5)
file.
Each line in the file must be terminated by a newline.
.TP
\fB\-d\fR \fIIFACE.PROG\fR
Delete the record
.I IFACE.PROG
then run the update scripts if updating is enabled.
.PP
The string
.I IFACE.PROG
may not contain
spaces,
slashes,
an initial dot,
an initial hyphen
or an initial tilde.
It is conventionally formed from
.IR IFACE ,
the name of the interface involved,
a dot,
and
.IR IPROG ,
the name of the interface configuration program,
e.g., "eth0.dhclient".
.TP
\fB\-u\fR
Just run the update scripts
(if updating is enabled).
.TP
With \fB\-a\fR, \fB\-d\fR or \fB\-u\fR:
if updating is not enabled, schedule a delayed update.
The delayed update will be carried out when updates are enabled.
.TP
\fB\-\-enable\-updates\fR 
Set the flag indicating that 
.B resolvconf
should run update scripts
when invoked in the future with \fB\-a\fR, \fB\-d\fR or \fB\-u\fR.
If a delayed update was scheduled then run update scripts.
.TP
\fB\-\-disable\-updates\fR
Clear the flag.
.TP
\fB\-\-updates\-are\-enabled\fR
Return 0 if the flag is set,
otherwise return 1.
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
The following variables can be set in the configuration file
.IR /etc/default/resolvconf .
If the file does not exist you will have to create it.
.TP
.B REPORT_ABSENT_SYMLINK
If set to "yes" then
.B resolvconf
will print a message when
.I /etc/resolv.conf
is not a symbolic link
to the
.BR resolvconf -generated
resolver configuration file.
Set to "no" to prevent the printing of this message.
The default is "yes".
.TP
.B TRUNCATE_NAMESERVER_LIST_AFTER_LOOPBACK_ADDRESS
If set to "yes" then the 
.I libc
script will include
no more nameserver addresses
after the first nameserver address
that is a loopback address.
(In IPv4 a loopback address is any one that starts with "127.".
In IPv6 the loopback address is "::1".)
.IP 
The advantage of truncating the nameserver list after a loopback address
is that doing so inhibits unnecessary changes to
.I resolv.conf 
and thus reduces the number of instances in which the
.I update\-libc.d/
scripts have to be run.
When an interface is brought up or down
the local caching nameserver
that listens on the loopback address
is still informed of the change and adapts accordingly;
the clients of the resolver which use the local caching nameserver
do not need to be notified of the change.
A disadvantage of this mode of operation is that applications have
no secondary or tertiary nameserver address to fall back on should
the local caching nameserver crash.
Insofar as a local nameserver crash can be regarded
as an unlikely event,
this is a relatively minor disadvantage.
Set to "no" to disable truncation.
The default is "yes".
.IP 
A deprecated synonym for this variable is 
.BR TRUNCATE_NAMESERVER_LIST_AFTER_127 .
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/default/resolvconf
See the ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES section.
.TP
.I /etc/resolvconf/run
This is a symbolic link to a location where nameserver information is stored.
The location must be on a filesystem that is writable
early in the boot sequence.
In Debian the default location is
.I /run/resolvconf
and
in the future this will be
the only supported location;
configurability of the location via
.I /etc/resolvconf/run
will be dropped.
Nevertheless, clients should not make any assumptions
about the location or the canonical path of this directory
or the hierarchy that is constructed under it.
.TP
.I /etc/resolvconf/interface\-order
Determines the order of precedence of nameserver addresses and search domain names.
See above and
.BR interface\-order (5).
.TP
.I /etc/resolvconf/resolv.conf.d/base
File containing basic resolver information.
The lines in this file are included in the resolver configuration file
even when no interfaces are configured.
.TP
.I /etc/resolvconf/resolv.conf.d/head
File to be prepended to the dynamically generated resolver configuration file.
Normally this is just a comment line.
.TP
.I /etc/resolvconf/resolv.conf.d/tail
File to be appended to the dynamically generated resolver configuration file.
To append nothing, make this an empty file.
This file is a good place to put a resolver
.B options
line if one is needed, e.g.,

.EX
    options inet6
.EE
.TP
.I /etc/resolvconf/resolv.conf.d/original
Copy of the
.I /etc/resolv.conf
file before the resolvconf package was installed.
This file has no effect on the functioning of resolvconf;
it is retained so that
.I /etc/resolv.conf
can be restored to its original state
if the resolvconf package is removed.

Note also that a copy of this file is included in the database
until the first reboot after installation of the resolvconf package;
this ensures that nameservers reachable before installation of resolvconf
are still reachable after installation of resolvconf even though
at that point
not all suppliers of nameserver information may have supplied their
information to
.BR resolvconf (8).

Note also
that the administrator can choose to create a symbolic link in
.I /etc/resolvconf/resolv.conf.d/
from
.I tail
to
.I original
so that the contents of
.I original
are always added to the end of the
dynamically generated file.

.SH BUGS
Currently
.B resolvconf
does not check the sanity of the information provided to it.
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Thomas Hood <jdthood@gmail.com>
with contributions by Nathan Stratton Treadway.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2004-2013 Thomas Hood.
.br
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR interface\-order (5),
.BR resolv.conf (5),
.BR resolver (3).
.PP
Read the resolvconf package
.I README
file for more in-depth information.
