This special remote type stores file contents in Amazon Glacier.

To use it, you need to have [glacier-cli](http://github.com/basak/glacier-cli)
installed.

The unusual thing about Amazon Glacier is the multiple-hour delay it takes
to retrieve information out of Glacier. To deal with this, commands like
"git-annex get" request Glacier start the retrieval process, and will fail
due to the data not yet being available. You can then wait appriximately 
four hours, re-run the same command, and this time, it will actually
download the data.

## configuration

The standard environment variables `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID` and 
`AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY` are used to supply login credentials
for Amazon. You need to set these only when running
`git annex initremote`, as they will be cached in a file only you
can read inside the local git repository.

A number of parameters can be passed to `git annex initremote` to configure
the Glacier remote.

* `encryption` - Required. Either "none" to disable encryption (not recommended),
  or a value that can be looked up (using gpg -k) to find a gpg encryption
  key that will be given access to the remote, or "shared" which allows
  every clone of the repository to access the encrypted data (use with caution).

  Note that additional gpg keys can be given access to a remote by
  rerunning initremote with the new key id. See [[encryption]].

* `embedcreds` - Optional. Set to "yes" embed the login credentials inside
  the git repository, which allows other clones to also access them. This is
  the default when gpg encryption is enabled; the credentials are stored
  encrypted and only those with the repository's keys can access them.

  It is not the default when using shared encryption, or no encryption.
  Think carefully about who can access your repository before using
  embedcreds without gpg encryption.

* `datacenter` - Defaults to "us-east-1".

* `vault` - By default, a vault name is chosen based on the remote name
  and UUID. This can be specified to pick a vault name.

* `fileprefix` - By default, git-annex places files in a tree rooted at the
  top of the Glacier vault. When this is set, it's prefixed to the filenames
  used. For example, you could set it to "foo/" in one special remote,
  and to "bar/" in another special remote, and both special remotes could
  then use the same vault.
