This special remote type stores file contents in a WebDAV server.

## configuration

The environment variables `WEBDAV_USERNAME` and `WEBDAV_PASSWORD` are used
to supply login credentials. You need to set these only when running
`git annex initremote`, as they will be cached in a file only you 
can read inside the local git repository.

A number of parameters can be passed to `git annex initremote` to configure
the webdav remote.

* `encryption` - Required. Either "none" to disable encryption (not recommended),
  or a value that can be looked up (using gpg -k) to find a gpg encryption
  key that will be given access to the remote, or "shared" which allows
  every clone of the repository to access the encrypted data (use with caution).

  Note that additional gpg keys can be given access to a remote by
  rerunning initremote with the new key id. See [[encryption]].

* `embedcreds` - Optional. Set to "yes" embed the login credentials inside
  the git repository, which allows other clones to also access them. This is
  the default when gpg encryption is enabled; the credentials are stored
  encrypted and only those with the repository's keys can access them.

  It is not the default when using shared encryption, or no encryption.
  Think carefully about who can access your repository before using
  embedcreds without gpg encryption.

* `url` - Required. The URL to the WebDAV directory where files will be
  stored. This can be a subdirectory of a larger WebDAV repository, and will
  be created as needed. Use of a https URL is strongly
  encouraged, since HTTP basic authentication is used.

* `chunksize` - Avoid storing files larger than the specified size in
  WebDAV. For use when the WebDAV server has file size
  limitations. The default is to never chunk files.  
  The value can use specified using any commonly used units.
  Example: `chunksize=75 megabytes`  
  Note that enabling chunking on an existing remote with non-chunked
  files is not recommended.

Setup example:

	# WEBDAV_USERNAME=joey@kitenet.net WEBDAV_PASSWORD=xxxxxxx git annex initremote box.com type=webdav url=https://www.box.com/dav/git-annex chunksize=75mb encryption=joey@kitenet.net
