.TH HACHA 1 
.SH NAME
hacha \- Chop hevea output files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B hacha
.I "[options] <htmlfile>"
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
This manual page documents briefly the
.BR hacha
command.
This manual page was written for the Debian GNU/Linux distribution
because the original program does not have a manual page.
.PP
.B Hacha
is a program that allow to cut an html file produced with
.B hevea
into several html files.

.SH OPTIONS

.SS General Options 
.TP
.BR \-help , \-\-help
 
Print a summary of the usage of hacha.
.TP 
.B \-version
Show the current version of hacha and exit. 
.TP
.B \-v,
Verbose flag
.TP
.B -rsz
Size of leaves in rope implementation. The default is 1024. Ropes are
a datastructure internally used by hevea to represent large pieces of
text.

.SS Options directing the flow of output
.TP
.B \-o filename
make hacha output go into file \fIfilename\fR (defaults to index.html)
.TP
.B -hrf
Output a base.hrf file, showing in which output files are the anchors
from the input file gone. The format of this summary is one
``\fIanchor\fR\\t\fIfile\fR'' line per anchor. This information may be
needed by other tools.

.SS Options controlling aspects of the HTML code 
.TP
.B \-tocbis
Duplicate table of contents at the begining of files.
.TP
.B \-tocter
Insert most of table of contents at the beginning of files.
.TP
.B \-nolinks
Do not insert Previous/Up/Next links in generated pages.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR hevea (1)
.P
The HeVeA documentation can be found  on the HeVeA home page
\fI http://hevea.inria.fr\fR.
On a Debian system it can also be accessed at
\fI/usr/share/doc/hevea-doc/html\fR or through the Debian help
system, provided the package \fIhevea-doc\fR is installed.

.SH AUTHOR
\fBHacha\fR is part of HeVeA, written by Luc Maranget <Luc.Maranget@inria.fr>.
.PP
This manual page was compiled by Ralf Treinen <treinen@debian.org>
and Georges Mariano <Georges.Mariano@inrets.fr>
from the HeVeA documentation for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may
be used by others).

