.TH HEVEA 1
.SH NAME
hevea \- A fast LaTeX to HTML translator
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B hevea
.I 
.RI "[options] <texfile>"
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
This manual page documents briefly the
.BR hevea 
command.
This manual page was written for the Debian GNU/Linux distribution
because the original program does not have a manual page.
.PP
Using
.B hevea
it is possible to translate large documents written in LaTeX, such as
manuals, books, etc., very quickly into HTML. All documents are
translated as one single HTML file. The output file can be cut into
smaller files, using the companion program
.B hacha.

.SH OPTIONS

.SS General Options 
.TP 
.B \-version
Show hevea version and exit.
.TP
.B \-v
Verbose flag, can be repeated to increase verbosity.
.TP
.B \-dv
Add border around some of the block-level elements
issued. Specifically, all DIV and P are bordered, while the structure
of displayed material is also shown.
.TP
.B -s
Suppress warnings. 
.TP
.B \-I dirname
Add \fIdirname\fR to the search path. 
.TP
.B \-o name
Make \fIname\fR the output basename. However, if \fIname\fR is
\fIbase.html\fR, then the output basename is \fIbase\fr. 
.TP
.B -e filename
Prevent hevea from loading any file whose name is \fIfilename\fR. Note that
this option applies to all files, including hevea.hva and base style
files.
.TP  
.B -fix
Iterate HeVeA until a fixpoint is found. Additionally, images get
generated automatically.
.TP
.B -O
Optimize HTML by calling \fIesponja\fR.
.TP
.B -exec prog
Execute file \fIprog\fR and read the output. The file prog must have
execution permission and is searched by following the searching rules
of hevea.
.TP
.B -francais
Deprecated by babel support. This option issues a warning message.
.TP
.BR \-help , \-\-help
Print version number and a short help message. 
.TP
.B -rsz
Size of leaves in rope implementation. The default is 1024. Ropes are
a datastructure internally used by hevea to represent large pieces of
text.


.SS Options controlling the generation of HTML code
.TP
.B -entities
Render symbols by using entities. This is the default. 
.TP
.B -textsymbols
Render symbols by English text. 
.TP
.B -moreentities
Enable the output of some infrequent entities. Use this option to
target browsers with wide entities support.
.TP
.B -mathml
Produces MathML output for equations, very experimental.
.TP
.B -pedantic
Be strict in interpreting HTML definition. In particular, this option
disable size and color changes inside <PRE>... </PRE>, which are
otherwise performed.

.SS Options for alternative output formats
.TP
.B -text
Output plain text. Output file extension is .txt. 
.TP
.B -info
Output info format. Output file extension is .info. 
.TP
.B -w width
Set the line \fIwidth\fR for text or info output, defaults to 72. 

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR hacha (1),
.BR imagen (1),
.BR esponja (1).
.P
The HeVeA documentation can be found  on the HeVeA home page
\fI http://hevea.inria.fr\fR.
On a Debian system it can also be accessed at
\fI/usr/share/doc/hevea-doc/html\fR, provided the package
\fIhevea-doc\fR (from the non-free section) is installed.

.SH AUTHOR
\fBHeVeA\fR is written by Luc Maranget <Luc.Maranget@inria.fr>.
.PP
This manual page was compiled by Ralf Treinen <treinen@debian.org>
and Georges Mariano <Georges.Mariano@inrets.fr>
from the HeVeA documentation for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may
be used by others).
