.TH IMAGEN 1 
.SH NAME
image \- Translate LaTeX documents to GIF images.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B imagen
.I "<base>"
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
This manual page documents briefly the
.BR imagen
command.  This manual page was written for the Debian GNU/Linux
distribution because the original program does not have a manual page.
.PP
.B imagen
is a simple shell script that translates a LaTeX document into many
images. Please consult the hevea manual for explanation how to use
.I imagen
in conjunction with hevea.

.SH OPTIONS
A summary of options are included below.
.TP
.B \-png
Produce images in the png format. This is the default.
.TP
.B \-gif
Produce images in gif format instead of png.
.TP
.B \-pnm
Produce images in pnm format instead of png.
.TP
.B \-mag nnnn,
Change the enlarging ratio that is applied while translating DVI into
Postscript. More precisely, dvips is run with \fI-xnnnn\fR option. Default
value for this ration is 1414, this means that, by 
default, imagen magnifies LaTeX output by a factor of 1.414.  
.TP
.B \-t arg
Pass option \fI\-t arg\fR to dvips. For instance, using \fI-t
a3\fR may help when images are truncated on the right.
.TP
.B \-pdf
Have imagen call pdflatex instead of latex
.TP
.B \-extra command,
Insert \fIcommand\fR as an additional stage in imagen ppm to png/gif production
chain. \fIcommand\fR is a Unix filter that expects a ppm image in its
standard input and outputs a ppm image on its standard output. A
sensible choice for command is one command from the netpbm package or
several such commands piped together.  
.TP
.B \-quant number
Add an extra color quantization step in imagen ppm image production
chain, where \fInumber\fR is the maximal number of colors in the produced
images. This option may be needed in response of a failure in the
image production chain. It can also help in limiting image files size.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR hevea (1),
.BR latex (1),
.BR gs (1),
.BR dvips (1),
.BR ppmtopng (1),
.BR ppmtogif (1)
.P
The HeVeA documentation can be found  on the HeVeA home page
\fI http://hevea.inria.fr\fR.
On a Debian system it can also be accessed at
\fI/usr/share/doc/hevea-doc/html\fR, provided the package
\fIhevea-doc\fR (from the non-free section) is installed.

.SH AUTHOR
\fBImagen\fR is part of HeVeA, written by Luc Maranget
<Luc.Maranget@inria.fr>.
.PP
This manual page was compiled by Ralf Treinen <treinen@debian.org>
from the HeVeA documentation for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may
be used by others).

