.TH LIBCDAUDIO-CONFIG 1 "12 February 2001" "0.99.4" "libcdaudio helper script"

.SH NAME
libcdaudio-config \- script to get information about the installed version of libcdaudio

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B libcdaudio-config
.RB [\| \-\-prefix
.RI [\| =DIR \|]
.RB [\| \-\-exec\-prefix
.RI [\| =DIR \|]
.RB [\| \-\-version \|]
.RB [\| \-\-libs \|]
.RB [\| \-\-cflags \|]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B libcdaudio-config
is a tool that is used to configure to determine the compiler and linker flags that should be used to compile and link programs that use libcdaudio. It is also used internally to the .m4 macros for GNU autoconf that are included with libcdaudio.
.PP

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-version
Print the currently installed version of libcdaudio on the standard output.
.TP
.B \-\-libs
Print the linker flags that are necessary to link a libcdaudio program.
.TP
.B \-\-cflags
Print the compiler flags that are necessary to compile a libcdaudio program.
.TP
.BI "\-\-prefix="PREFIX
If specified, use PREFIX instead of the installation prefix that libcdaudio was built with when computing the output for the \-\-cflags and \-\-libs options. This option is also used for the exec prefix if \-\-exec\-prefix was not specified. This option must be specified before any \-\-libs or \-\-cflags options.
.TP
.BI "\-\-exec\-prefix="PREFIX
If specified, use PREFIX instead of the installation exec prefix that libcdaudio was built with when computing the output for the \-\-cflags and \-\-libs options. This option must be specified before any \-\-libs or \-\-cflags options.

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 1998 Owen Taylor
Copyright \(co 2001 Matt Kraai

Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting documentation.
