.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH BUILD-PROGRESS.SH 1 "June 16, 2004"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
build-progress.sh \- show kde-build progress in your konsole/xterm title bar
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B build-progress.sh
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBbuild-progress.sh\fP can be used to watch the progress of a large KDE
build in the title bar of your konsole or xterm.
.PP
The KDE build must be running elsewhere as a separate process, and it
must be done using
.BR kde-build (1).
.PP
When you run build-progress.sh, it will sit in a permanent loop while
kde-build runs.  The title bar of the konsole/xterm in which you ran
build-progress.sh will be continually updated with the directory in
which the KDE build is currently working.
.PP
You must run build-progress.sh from the top-level directory of the KDE
build tree.  This directory must contain a file named
\fIkde-buildrc\fP (which is also used by kde-build).  This
\fIkde-buildrc\fP must contain valid settings for
\fIKDELOGDIR\fP and \fIKDESRCDIR\fP, or else build-progress.sh will
fail to work.
.PP
This utility is part of the KDE Software Development Kit.
.SH FILES
.TP
\fIkde-buildrc\fP
This file must be contained in the current directory, which must be the
root of the KDE build tree.  See
.BR kde-build (1)
for further information.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR kde-build (1).
.SH AUTHOR
build-progress.sh was written by Malte Starostik <malte@kde.org> and others.
.br
This manual page was prepared by Ben Burton <bab@debian.org>
for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
