.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH CVS-CLEAN 1 "March 20, 2005"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
cvs\-clean \- delete all files and directories not registered with CVS
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cvs\-clean
[ \fB-n, \-\-dry-run\fP ]
[ \fB-h, \-\-help\fP ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBcvs\-clean\fP recursively deletes everything in or beneath the
current directory that is not known to CVS (i.e., that has not been
checked out of or checked into a CVS repository).
.PP
A list of all files and directories that are deleted will be written to
the console.
.PP
This script behaves similarly to the \fIcvs-clean\fP target from the
file \fIadmin/Makefile.common\fP found in most KDE application sources.
.PP
This utility is part of the KDE Software Development Kit.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-n, \-\-dry-run\fP
Print the intended actions to the console, but do not change anything on
the filesystem.
.TP
\fB-h, \-\-help\fP
Display usage information.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR cvs (1).
.SH AUTHOR
This utility was written by Oswald Buddenhagen <ossi@kde.org>.
.br
This manual page was prepared by Ben Burton <bab@debian.org>
for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
