.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH CVSASKPASS 1 "March 19, 2005"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
cvsaskpass \- prompt for a password for the CVS DCOP service
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cvsaskpass
.RI "[ " generic-options " ]"
.I prompt
.SH DESCRIPTION
This utility displays a dialog box prompting the user for the password to
a CVS repository, then writes the password to standard output and exits.
You should not need to run this program directly \- it is designed for
the internal use of
.BR cvsservice (1).
.PP
The prompt should be of the following form:
.RS
.PP
\fIuser\fP@\fIhost\fP's password:
.RE
.PP
This will allow the dialog box to display the details of the CVS
repository to the user.
.PP
This utility is part of the CVS service provided with Cervisia, which in
turn is part of the KDE Software Development Kit.
.SH OPTIONS
For a full summary of options, run \fIcvsaskpass \-\-help\fP.
.SH RETURN VALUE
If a password was succefully obtained, 0 is returned.  If no prompt was
supplied on the command-line or if the dialog was cancelled, 1 is returned.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR cervisia (1),
.BR cvsservice (1),
.BR dcop (1).
.PP
Details of how to use the CVS service from within another script or C++
program can be found in \fI/usr/share/doc/libcvsservice0/DESIGN\fP.
.SH AUTHOR
The CVS service was written by Christian Loose <christian.loose@kdemail.net>.
.br
Cervisia was written by Bernd Gehrmann <bernd@physik.hu-berlin.de>,
Christian Loose <christian.loose@kdemail.net>,
Andre Woebbeking <woebbeking@web.de>,
Carlos Woelz <carloswoelz@imap-mail.com> and others.
.br
This manual page was prepared by Ben Burton <bab@debian.org>
for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
