.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH CVSFORWARDPORT 1 "March 20, 2005"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
cvsforwardport \- forwardport the last change in a branch to HEAD
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cvsforwardport
\fIfile\fP ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
For each file given on the command line,
\fBcvsforwardport\fP will attempt to determine the last change made to
the file in the primary CVS branch and then forwardport that change to HEAD.
The branch name is hard-coded; see below.
.PP
The changes to be forwardported will be displayed on screen, and you will
have the chance to confirm or abort before any commits are made.
.PP
The files must be checked out from the branch when you run this utility.
.PP
This utility is part of the KDE Software Development Kit.
.SH WARNINGS
The branch tag is hard-coded into the script (currently it is set to
KDE_3_4_BRANCH).
.PP
If you abort (i.e., you do not make the suggested commits), your files
will be checked out from HEAD (and not from the branch as they were
before).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR cvsbackport (1),
.BR cvsblame (1),
.BR cvslastchange (1),
.BR cvslastlog (1),
.BR cvsrevertlast (1).
.SH AUTHOR
This utility was written by Dirk Mueller and David Faure.
.br
This manual page was prepared by Ben Burton <bab@debian.org>
for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
