.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH EXTRACTATTR 1 "March 20, 2005"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
extractattr \- extract element attributes from UI and XML GUI files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B extractattr
\fB\-\-attr=\fP\fIname\fP
[ \fB\-\-attr=\fP\fIname\fP ... ]
[ \fB\-\-context=\fP\fIname\fP ]
\fIfile\fP ...
.PP
.B extractattr \-\-help
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBextractattr\fP finds all of the given element attributes within the
given files.  It then writes the corresponding \fIi18n()\fP calls to
standard output (usually redirected to rc.cpp) so that xgettext can parse
them.  Only the attributes specified by \fB\-\-attr\fP will be extracted.
.PP
Both Qt designer (.ui) files and XML GUI (.rc) files are understood.
.PP
This utility is part of the KDE Software Development Kit.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-\-attr=\fP\fIname\fP
Specifies an attribute to be extracted.  This option may be used
multiple times.
.br
The \fIname\fP argument must be of the form
\fIElement\fP,\fIattribute\fP or
\fIElement\fP,\fIattribute\fP,\fIcontext\fP.
.br
The context is optional, and is used in constructing the i18n() calls.
If specified it will override the default context set by \fB\-\-context\fP.
.TP
\fB\-\-context=\fP\fIname\fP
Give all i18n() calls the given context: i18n("\fIname\fP", ...).
.TP
\fB\-\-help\fP
Display a summary of options.
.SH EXAMPLE
extractattr \-\-attr=Title,data \-\-attr=Description,data,Stencils file.ui
.SH AUTHOR
This utility was written by Richard Evans <rich@ridas.com> and others.
.br
This manual page was prepared by Ben Burton <bab@debian.org>
for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
