.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH FIXUIFILES 1 "March 20, 2005"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
fixuifiles \- remove undesirable features from Qt/KDE .ui files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B fixuifiles
[ \fB\-v, \-\-verbose\fP ]
[ \fB\-\-omitqtcheck\fP ]
[ \fIfile\fP ... ]
.br
.B fixuifiles \-\-help
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBfixuifiles\fP processes one or more Qt/KDE user interface definition
files (.ui files) and tries to remove some of the insanities found
therein.  If no filenames are given, fixuifiles will process all .ui
files in or beneath the current directory.
.PP
The following problems are fixed:
.PP
.RS
Too high minimum Qt version;
.PP
Hardcoded untranslatable Alt+Letter accels (auto-added by Qt Designer);
.PP
Captions that are equal to class names (auto-added by Qt Designer).
.RE
.PP
The threshold Qt version can be set
using either a \fI.qt_minversion\fP file (containing simply the Qt version
number) or a \fIconfigure.in.in\fP file (containing an appropriate
MIN_CONFIG macro).  These files may be in the directory containing the .ui
file or any parent directory.  If no threshold Qt version is found,
a sensible default will be used.
.PP
This utility is part of the KDE Software Development Kit.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-v, \-\-verbose\fP
Verbose mode.  Additional debugging information is written to standard output.
.TP
\fB\-\-omitqtcheck\fP
Do not check the minimum Qt version.
.SH AUTHOR
fixuifiles was written by David Faure <faure@kde.org> and
Dirk Mueller <mueller@kde.org>.
.br
This manual page was prepared by Ben Burton <bab@debian.org>
for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
