.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH HOTSHOT2CALLTREE 1 "October 15, 2004"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
hotshot2calltree \- convert hotshot profiling data to KCachegrind calltree format
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B hotshot2calltree
[ \fB\-\-file\-limit\fP \fIlimit\fP ]
\fB\-o\fP \fIoutput\fP \fIinput\fP [ \fIinput\fP ... ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBhotshot2calltree\fP reads one or more pstat profiling data files
as output by the hotshot python profiler, and converts them into
calltree format for use by KCachegrind.
.PP
This utility is part of the KDE Software Development Kit.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-o\fP \fIoutput\fP
Write the calltree output into the given file for use by KCachegrind.
This may be \fB\-\fP if you wish to write to standard output.
.TP
\fIinput\fP ...
Read the hotshot profiling data from the given file(s).
.TP
\fB\-\-file\-limit\fP \fIlimit\fP
Stop after the given number of input files.
.SH EXAMPLE
Suppose that you have used hotshot to profile a python app, with results
dumped to the file \fIpythongrind.prof\fP.  You may then work with this
data in KCachegrind as follows.
.PP
.RS
hotshot2cachegrind \-o cachegrind.out.0 pythongrind.prof
.br
kcachegrind cachegrind.out.0
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR kcachegrind (1).
.SH AUTHOR
This converter was written by Jorg Beyer <job@webde-ag.de>.
.br
This manual page was prepared by Ben Burton <bab@debian.org>
for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
