.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH KAPPTEMPLATE 1 "January 31, 2004"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
kapptemplate \- creates a framework to develop a KDE application
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B kapptemplate
[ \fB\-\-noinit\fP ] [ \fB\-\-default\fP ]
.RB "[ " \-\-full\-app " | " \-\-kpart\-app " | " \-\-kpart\-plugin
.RB " | " \-\-existing " ]"
.PP
.B kapptemplate \-\-help
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBKAppTemplate\fP is a shell script that will create the necessary
framework to develop various KDE applications.  It takes care of the
autoconf/automake code as well as providing a skeleton and example of
what the code typically looks like.
.PP
This utility is part of the KDE Software Development Kit.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS General Options
.TP
\-\-help
Display a full summary of options.
.TP
\-\-noinit
Don't run 'make \-f Makefile.cvs'.
.TP
\-\-default
Use default values instead of prompting.
.SS Framework Types
.TP
\-\-full\-app
Create a full featured KDE application.
.TP
\-\-kpart\-app
Create a full featured KPart application.
.TP
\-\-kpart\-plugin
Create a KPart plugin framework.
.TP
\-\-existing
Converting existing source to an automake/autoconf KDE framework.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.kapptemplate
Stores default values.
.SH SEE ALSO
The original documentation from the program author
is available in \fI/usr/share/doc/kapptemplate/\fP.
.SH AUTHOR
KAppTemplate was written by Kurt Granroth <granroth@kde.org>.
.br
This manual page was prepared by Ben Burton <bab@debian.org>
for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
