.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH KBUGBUSTER 1 "January 31, 2004"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
kbugbuster \- front end for the KDE bug tracking system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B kbugbuster
.RI "[ " generic-options " ]"
[ \fB\-d, \-\-disconnected\fP ]
[ \fB\-\-pkg, \-\-package\fP \fIpkg\fP ]
[ \fB\-\-bug\fP \fInumber\fP ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBKBugBuster\fP is a GUI front end for the KDE bug tracking system.
It allows the user to view and manipulate bug reports and provides a
variety of options for searching through reports.
.PP
This utility is part of the KDE Software Development Kit.
.SH OPTIONS
Below are the kbugbuster-specific options.
For a full summary of options, run \fIkbugbuster \-\-help\fP.
.TP
[ \fB\-d, \-\-disconnected\fP ]
Start in disconnected mode.
.TP
[ \fB\-\-pkg, \-\-package\fP \fIpkg\fP ]
Start with the bug list for the given package.
.TP
[ \fB\-\-bug\fP \fInumber\fP ]
Start with the given bug report.
.SH AUTHOR
KBugBuster was written by Martijn Klingens <klingens@kde.org>,
Simon Hausmann <hausmann@kde.org>, Cornelius Schumacher <schumacher@kde.org>
and David Faure <faure@kde.org>.
.br
This manual page was prepared by Ben Burton <bab@debian.org>
for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
