.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH KCACHEGRIND 1 "March 25, 2005"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
kcachegrind \- a visualisation tool for valgrind profiling output
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B kcachegrind
.RI "[ " generic-options " ]"
[ \fB\-r\fP \fIexec\fP ] [ \fItrace-file\fP ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBKCachegrind\fP is a visualisation tool for the profiling data generated
by \fBcalltree\fP, a profiling skin for \fBvalgrind\fP.  Applications can be
profiled using calltree without being recompiled, and shared libraries
and plugin architectures are supported.
.PP
For visualising the output from other profiling tools, several converters
are available.  On Debian systems these can be found in the
\fIkcachegrind-converters\fP package.
.PP
This application is part of the KDE Software Development Kit.
.SH OPTIONS
Below are the kcachegrind-specific options.
For a full summary of options, run \fIkcachegrind \-\-help\fP.
.TP
\fB\-r\fP \fIexec\fP
Run the program \fIexec\fP under cachegrind.
.TP
\fItrace-file\fP
Visualise data from the given trace.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR calltree (1),
.BR dprof2calltree (1),
.BR hotshot2calltree (1),
.BR memprof2calltree (1),
.BR op2calltree (1),
.BR pprof2calltree (1),
.BR valgrind (1).
.PP
Full user documentation is available through the KDE Help Centre.
You can also enter the URL
\fIhelp:/kcachegrind/\fP
directly into konqueror or you can run
`\fIkhelpcenter help:/kcachegrind/\fP'
from the command-line.
.PP
If the KDE Help Centre is not installed then you can install the package
\fIkdesdk-doc-html\fP and read this documentation in HTML format from
\fI/usr/share/doc/kde/HTML/en/kcachegrind/\fP.
.SH AUTHOR
KCachegrind was written by Josef Weidendorfer <Josef.Weidendorfer@gmx.de>.
.br
This manual page was prepared by Ben Burton <bab@debian.org>
for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
