.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH KDEMANGEN.PL 1 "October 15, 2004"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
kdemangen.pl \- automatically create a draft manpage for a KDE app
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B kdemangen.pl
.I /path/to/application
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBkdemangen.pl\fP will automatically create a draft manpage for a KDE
application.  Manpages are always better when hand-tailored, but this
should give you a fairly good start.
.PP
To create the manpage, it will use the \-\-author and \-\-help\-all
output for the application passed on the command line.
It will also use the description in the
Debian control file if one is available.  To make use of this additional
feature, you must run kdemangen.pl from within the \fIdebian/\fP
subdirectory of the application sources.
.PP
The new manpage will be written to standard output.
.PP
This utility is part of the KDE Software Development Kit.
.SH WARNING
This utility will only work for a full KDE application that uses
KCmdLineArgs (which most full KDE applications do).
.SH EXAMPLE
.RS
cd /path/to/kde/srcs/kdeedu/debian
.br
kdemangen /usr/bin/kstars > kstars.1
.RE
.SH AUTHOR
kdemangen.pl was written by Dominique Devriese <devriese@kde.org>.
.br
This manual page was prepared by Ben Burton <bab@debian.org>
for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
