.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH KMINSPECTOR 1 "February 25, 2003"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
kminspector \- run a program with the KDE memory leak tracer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B kminspector
\fIprogram\fP [ \fIprogram-args\fP ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBKMinspector\fP runs the given program, examines its memory
allocation behaviour using \fIlibktrace\fP and pipes the resulting
allocation tree through \fIless\fP.
.PP
The given program does not need to be specially compiled.
.PP
This utility is provided with KMtrace,
a KDE tool to assist with malloc debugging using
glibc's "mtrace" functionality. Unfortunately the mtrace that is part of
current (9/9/2000) glibc versions only logs the return-address of the
malloc/free call. The library included with KMtrace
logs a complete backtrace upon malloc/free.
.PP
This utility is part of the KDE Software Development Kit.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR demangle (1),
.BR kmmatch (1),
.BR kmtrace (1).
.PP
Much more extensive documentation for KMtrace can be found in
\fI/usr/share/doc/kmtrace/README\fP.
.SH AUTHOR
KMtrace was written by Waldo Bastian <bastian@kde.org>,
Mike Haertel <mike@ai.mit.edu> and Andi Kleen <ak@suse.de>.
.br
This manual page was prepared by Ben Burton <bab@debian.org>
for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
