.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH KMMATCH 1 "February 26, 2003"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
kmmatch \- search for symbols in a map file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B kmmatch
.I map-file call-file
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBKMMatch\fP determines which symbols from a given set (\fIcall-file\fP) are
present in a given map file.
.PP
The \fImap-file\fP should contain output from \fInm\fP (which extracts
information from object files).  It must \fBnot\fP contain any blank
lines or header information (such as the name of the object file); this
means you may need to strip the first few lines of \fInm\fP output from
the \fImap-file\fP.
.PP
The \fIcall-file\fP should contain a list of symbols (such as function
calls made by a program), one per line.
.PP
This utility will find which of the symbols in \fIcall-file\fP are
present in \fImap-file\fP and write them to standard error, one per
line, in the order in which they appear in \fIcall-file\fP.
.PP
Note that this utility is called \fBmatch\fP in the original KDE
distribution; it has been renamed to \fBkmmatch\fP in Debian to
avoid conflicts with unrelated packages.
.PP
This utility is part of the KDE Software Development Kit.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR demangle (1),
.BR kminspector (1),
.BR kmtrace (1),
.BR nm (1).
.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was prepared by Ben Burton <bab@debian.org>
for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
