.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH KMTRACE 1 "February 25, 2003"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
kmtrace \- a KDE memory leak tracer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B kmtrace
[ \fIgeneric-options\fP ]
[ \fB\-x, \-\-exclude\fP \fIfile\fP ]
[ \fB\-e, \-\-exe\fP \fIfile\fP ]
[ \fB\-t, \-\-tree\fP \fIfile\fP
[ \fB\-\-th, \-\-treethreshold\fP \fIvalue\fP ]
[ \fB\-\-td, \-\-treedepth\fP \fIvalue\fP ]]
[ \fItrace-log\fP ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBKMtrace\fP is a KDE tool to assist with malloc debugging using
glibc's "mtrace" functionality. Unfortunately the mtrace that is part of
current (9/9/2000) glibc versions only logs the return-address of the
malloc/free call. The library included with KMtrace
logs a complete backtrace upon malloc/free.
.PP
KMtrace will investigate the trace log specified on the command line,
or \fIktrace.out\fP if no trace log is specified.
.PP
This utility is part of the KDE Software Development Kit.
.SH OPTIONS
Below are the kmtrace-specific options.
For a full summary of options, run \fIkmtrace \-\-help\fP.
.TP
\fB\-x, \-\-exclude\fP \fIfile\fP
File containing symbols to exclude from output.
.TP
\fB\-e, \-\-exe\fP \fIfile\fP
Executable to use for looking up unknown symbols.
.TP
\fB\-t, \-\-tree\fP \fIfile\fP
Write a tree of the allocations to the given file.
.TP
\fB\-\-th, \-\-treethreshold\fP \fIvalue\fP
When writing the allocations tree, hide subtrees allocating less than the
given memory amount.
.TP
\fB\-\-td, \-\-treedepth\fP \fIvalue\fP
When writing the allocations tree, hide subtrees that are deeper than the
specified depth.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR demangle (1),
.BR kminspector (1),
.BR kmmatch (1).
.PP
Much more extensive documentation can be found in
\fI/usr/share/doc/kmtrace/README\fP.
.SH AUTHOR
KMtrace was written by Waldo Bastian <bastian@kde.org>,
Mike Haertel <mike@ai.mit.edu> and Andi Kleen <ak@suse.de>.
.br
This manual page was prepared by Ben Burton <bab@debian.org>
for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
