.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH KOMPARE 1 "March 25, 2005"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
kompare \- a KDE GUI for viewing differences between files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B kompare
[ \fIgeneric-options\fP ]
.br
.B kompare
[ \fIgeneric-options\fP ] [ \fB\-c\fP ] \fIURL1 URL2\fP
.br
.B kompare
[ \fIgeneric-options\fP ] [ \fB\-o\fP [ \fB\-n\fP ]] \fIdiff\fP
.br
.B kompare
[ \fIgeneric-options\fP ] \fB\-b\fP \fIURL diff\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBKompare\fP is a graphical user interface for viewing the differences
between two files.  It will also optionally create a diff file.
.PP
Depending upon what is passed on the command line, Kompare can compare
documents, display diff files and blend diff files back into original
documents.
.PP
If an url is given as - then Kompare will read the corresponding file
from standard input.  Thus (for instance) Kompare can be used as:
.PP
.RS
cvs diff | kompare \-o \-
.RE
.PP
This utility is part of the KDE Software Development Kit.
.SH OPTIONS
Below are the kompare-specific options.
For a full summary of options, run \fIkompare \-\-help\fP.
.TP
\fB\-b\fP \fIURL diff\fP
Blends \fIdiff\fP into URL.  \fIdiff\fP is expected to be diff output and
\fIURL\fP the file or folder that the diff output needs to be blended into.
.TP
\fB\-c\fP \fIURL1 URL2\fP
Compares \fIURL1\fP with \fIURL2\fP.  This is the default mode if two
URLs are passed.
.TP
\fB\-n\fP
Used with \fB\-o\fP to stop Kompare from checking for the original file.
.TP
\fB\-o\fP \fIdiff\fP
Opens the given diff file.  This is the default mode if only one URL is
passed.
.br
Kompare will check to see if it can find
the original file(s).  If it can, it will blend the original file(s) into
the diff output and show the result in the viewer.  Passing \fB\-n\fP
will disable this check.
.SH SEE ALSO
The original documentation from the program author
is available in \fI/usr/share/doc/kompare/\fP.
.SH AUTHOR
Kompare was written by John Firebaugh <jfirebaugh@kde.org>,
Otto Bruggeman <otto.bruggeman@home.nl> and others.
.br
This manual page was prepared by Ben Burton <bab@debian.org>
for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
