.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH MAKEOBJ 1 "March 20, 2005"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
makeobj \- run make from the correct directory
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B makeobj
[ \fImake-argument\fP ... ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBmakeobj\fP is a wrapper around \fBmake\fP which basically checks
whether it's in the source directory or the build directory and changes
to the correct directory before calling make.
.PP
The command-line arguments will (generally) be passed directly to make.
.PP
This script is useful if the source directory is different from the
build directory and the Makefiles are kept in the build directory, as is
common for instance when building the KDE sources.  This script can however
be used in more standard scenarios (such as non-KDE projects for which the
source and build directories are the same), where it will behave just like
make.
.PP
One of the environment variables OBJ_SUBDIR or OBJ_REPLACEMENT
should be set to indicate where the build directory is in relation to
the source directory.
.PP
This utility is part of the KDE Software Development Kit.
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
Note that only one of OBJ_SUBDIR and OBJ_REPLACEMENT should be used.
If the build directory is simply a subdirectory of the source directory,
the simpler variable OBJ_SUBDIR should be used.
.TP
OBJ_SUBDIR
Indicates that the build directory is in the given subdirectory of the
source directory.  For instance, if the source directory is \fIkdesdk\fP
and the build directory is \fIkdesdk/obj-i386-linux\fP, then OBJ_SUBDIR
should be set to \fIobj-i386-linux\fP.
.TP
OBJ_REPLACEMENT
A \fBsed\fP expression that is used to transform the source directory
into the build directory.
For instance, if the source directory is \fI~/src/kdesdk\fP and the
build directory is \fI~/src/kdesdk-obj\fP, then OBJ_REPLACEMENT could
be set to \fIs#src/kdesdk#src/kdesdk-obj#\fP.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR make (1),
.BR sed (1).
.SH AUTHOR
makeobj was written by Stephan Kulow <coolo@kde.org>.
.br
This manual page was prepared by Ben Burton <bab@debian.org>
for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
