.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH PACKAGE_CRYSTALSVG 1 "October 15, 2004"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
package_crystalsvg \- bundle up Crystal SVG sources from a KDE checkout
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B package_crystalsvg
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBpackage_crystalsvg\fP assumes that the current directory contains one
or more checked-out KDE modules.  It searches these modules for Crystal
SVG vector sources (.svgz or .svg.gz files)
and packages them up into a tarball.  The tarball will also
contain \fIFILES\fP (describing the contents of the tarball and which
KDE modules/paths they were copied from) as well as some other bits and
pieces.
.PP
Note that you must at least have kdelibs checked out for this utility to
run.
.PP
The final tarball will be created in the current working directory.
.PP
This utility is part of the KDE Software Development Kit.
.SH AUTHOR
package_crystalsvg was written by Frans Englich <frans.englich@telia.com>.
.br
This manual page was prepared by Ben Burton <bab@debian.org>
for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
