.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH UMBRELLO 1 "March 19, 2005"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
umbrello \- a UML modelling tool and code generator
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B umbrello
.RI "[ " generic-options " ]"
[ \fIfile\fP ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBUmbrello UML Modeller\fP is a Unified Modelling Language editor for KDE.
With UML you can create diagrams of software and other systems in an
industry standard format.  Umbrello can also generate code from your
UML diagrams in a number of programming languages.
.PP
The program supports class diagrams, sequence diagrams, collaboration
diagrams, use case diagrams, state diagrams, activity diagrams, component
diagrams and deployment diagrams.
.PP
This application is part of the KDE Software Development Kit.
.SH OPTIONS
For a full summary of options, run \fIumbrello \-\-help\fP.
.SH SEE ALSO
Full user documentation is available through the KDE Help Centre.
You can also enter the URL
\fIhelp:/umbrello/\fP
directly into konqueror or you can run
`\fIkhelpcenter help:/umbrello/\fP'
from the command-line.
.PP
If the KDE Help Centre is not installed then you can install the package
\fIkdesdk-doc-html\fP and read this documentation in HTML format from
\fI/usr/share/doc/kde/HTML/en/umbrello/\fP.
.SH AUTHOR
Umbrello was written by Paul Hensgen <phensgen@users.sourceforge.net> and
many others.
.br
This manual page was prepared by Ben Burton <bab@debian.org>
for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
