.TH AUTOSCAN "1" "September 2005" "autoscan 2.59" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
autoscan \- Generate a preliminary configure.in
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B autoscan
[\fIOPTION\fR] ... [\fISRCDIR\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Examine source files in the directory tree rooted at SRCDIR, or the
current directory if none is given.  Search the source files for
common portability problems, check for incompleteness of
`configure.ac', and create a file `configure.scan' which is a
preliminary `configure.ac' for that package.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
print this help, then exit
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
print version number, then exit
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
verbosely report processing
.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-debug\fR
don't remove temporary files
.SS "Library directories:"
.TP
\fB\-B\fR, \fB\-\-prepend\-include\fR=\fIDIR\fR
prepend directory DIR to search path
.TP
\fB\-I\fR, \fB\-\-include\fR=\fIDIR\fR
append directory DIR to search path
.SH AUTHOR
Written by David J. MacKenzie and Akim Demaille.
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs to <bug\-autoconf@gnu.org>.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2003 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
.br
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.  There is NO
warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR autoconf (1),
.BR automake (1),
.BR autoreconf (1),
.BR autoupdate (1),
.BR autoheader (1),
.BR autoscan (1),
.BR config.guess (1),
.BR config.sub (1),
.BR ifnames (1),
.BR libtool (1).
.PP
The Debian project regards the full documentation for
.B autoscan
to be non-free, so it is not included in Debian.  Nevertheless, the
non-free distribution that accompanies Debian includes the manual in
its
.B autoconf-doc
package.  Otherwise, you may be able to access the Autoconf manual
online.
