.TH AUTOHEADER "1" "September 2005" "autoheader 2.59" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
autoheader \- Create a template header for configure
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B autoheader
[\fIOPTION\fR] ... [\fITEMPLATE-FILE\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Create a template file of C `#define' statements for `configure' to
use.  To this end, scan TEMPLATE\-FILE, or `configure.ac' if present,
or else `configure.in'.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
print this help, then exit
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
print version number, then exit
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
verbosely report processing
.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-debug\fR
don't remove temporary files
.TP
\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-force\fR
consider all files obsolete
.TP
\fB\-W\fR, \fB\-\-warnings\fR=\fICATEGORY\fR
report the warnings falling in CATEGORY
.SS "Warning categories include:"
.TP
`cross'
cross compilation issues
.TP
`gnu'
GNU coding standards (default in gnu and gnits modes)
.TP
`obsolete'
obsolete features or constructions
.TP
`override'
user redefinitions of Automake rules or variables
.TP
`portability'
portability issues
.TP
`syntax'
dubious syntactic constructs (default)
.TP
`unsupported'
unsupported or incomplete features (default)
.TP
`all'
all the warnings
.TP
`no\-CATEGORY'
turn off warnings in CATEGORY
.TP
`none'
turn off all the warnings
.TP
`error'
treat warnings as errors
.SS "Library directories:"
.TP
\fB\-B\fR, \fB\-\-prepend\-include\fR=\fIDIR\fR
prepend directory DIR to search path
.TP
\fB\-I\fR, \fB\-\-include\fR=\fIDIR\fR
append directory DIR to search path
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Roland McGrath and Akim Demaille.
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs to <bug\-autoconf@gnu.org>.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2003 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
.br
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.  There is NO
warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR autoconf (1),
.BR automake (1),
.BR autoreconf (1),
.BR autoupdate (1),
.BR autoheader (1),
.BR autoscan (1),
.BR config.guess (1),
.BR config.sub (1),
.BR ifnames (1),
.BR libtool (1).
.PP
The Debian project regards the full documentation for
.B autoheader
to be non-free, so it is not included in Debian.  Nevertheless, the
non-free distribution that accompanies Debian includes the manual in
its
.B autoconf-doc
package.  Otherwise, you may be able to access the Autoconf manual
online.
.B /usr/share/doc/autoconf/autoconf.html
for more information.
