.TH AUTOUPDATE "1" "September 2005" "autoupdate 2.59" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
autoupdate \- Update a configure.in to a newer Autoconf
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B autoupdate
[\fIOPTION\fR] ...  [\fITEMPLATE-FILE\fR...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Update the TEMPLATE\-FILE... if given, or `configure.ac' if present,
or else `configure.in', to the syntax of the current version of
Autoconf.  The original files are backed up.
.SS "Operation modes:"
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
print this help, then exit
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
print version number, then exit
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
verbosely report processing
.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-debug\fR
don't remove temporary files
.TP
\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-force\fR
consider all files obsolete
.SS "Library directories:"
.TP
\fB\-B\fR, \fB\-\-prepend\-include\fR=\fIDIR\fR
prepend directory DIR to search path
.TP
\fB\-I\fR, \fB\-\-include\fR=\fIDIR\fR
append directory DIR to search path
.SH AUTHOR
Written by David J. MacKenzie and Akim Demaille.
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs to <bug\-autoconf@gnu.org>.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2003 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
.br
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.  There is NO
warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR autoconf (1),
.BR automake (1),
.BR autoreconf (1),
.BR autoupdate (1),
.BR autoheader (1),
.BR autoscan (1),
.BR config.guess (1),
.BR config.sub (1),
.BR ifnames (1),
.BR libtool (1).
.PP
The Debian project regards the full documentation for
.B autoupdate
to be non-free, so it is not included in Debian.  Nevertheless, the
non-free distribution that accompanies Debian includes the manual in
its
.B autoconf-doc
package.  Otherwise, you may be able to access the Autoconf manual
online.
