My goal for this month is to get more people using the git-annex assistant,
and fix issues that might be blocking you from using it. To do this,
I'd like to get an idea about whether you're already using it,
or what's keeping you from using it.

If you use `git-annex` at the command line and have no reason to use the
assistant, please instead fill in this poll on behalf of less technically
adept friends or family -- what's preventing you from introducing them to
the assistant?

[[!poll open=yes expandable=yes 7 "I'm using the assistant!" 15 "I need a Windows port" 26 "I need an Android port" 2 "I need an IPhone port (not holding my breath)" 1 "Well, it's still in beta..." 11 "I want to, but have not had the time to try it" 5 "Just inertia. I've got this dropbox/whatever that already works.." 1 "It's too hard to install (please say why in comments)" 2 "Perceived recent increase of bug reports and thus sitting it out." 20 "Initially the lack of direct-mode. Now concerns about the safety of direct mode. Perhaps after the next release." 6 "I haven't always well understood the differences between commandline operation & the assistant, so the differences would confuse me, and I found the command line more understandable & less scary.  Now trying to learn to like & trust the assistant. :)" 10 "An Ubuntu PPA would be supercool! Thanks for your great work!!" 17 "Not yet in Debian sid amd64" 1 "Waiting for Fedora/CentOS rpm repository." 2 "throttling transfers, it upsets people when I saturate the connection" 2 "partial content" 1 "Not yet available in macports" 3 "No build yet for Nokia N9" 2 "Using only git-annex webapp to config does not seem to work: Create walkthough?" 4 "No build for OSX 10.6" 4 "Needs more focus on the UI." 1 "Just inertia. I don't have a Dropbox/whatever." 3 "Replaces files with a symlink mess." 2 "configurable option to only annex files meeting certian size or filename criteria" 2 "I'm really confused about how to make it sync with a remote NON-bare repository. I'm even afraid to try `git remote add`, since there is no clear method to completely forget a git-annex remote..." 2 "A build for te raspberry pi would be supercol!" 1 "Would be nice to exclude subfolders from the gui or through a config file" 1 "I wish I had transparently encrypted git repos in the cloud available, like jgit."]]

Feel free to write in your own reasons, or add a comment to give me more info.
