Amazon Glacier provides low-cost storage, well suited for archiving and
backup. But it takes around 4 hours to get content out of Glacier.

Recent versions of git-annex support Glacier. To use it, you need to have
[glacier-cli](http://github.com/basak/glacier-cli) installed.

First, export your Amazon AWS credentials:

        # export AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID="08TJMT99S3511WOZEP91"
        # export AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY="s3kr1t"

Now, create a gpg key, if you don't already have one. This will be used
to encrypt everything stored in Glacier, for your privacy. Once you have
a gpg key, run `gpg --list-secret-keys` to look up its key id, something
like "2512E3C7"

Next, create the Glacier remote.

	# git annex initremote glacier type=glacier encryption=2512E3C7
	initremote glacier (encryption setup with gpg key C910D9222512E3C7) (gpg) ok

The configuration for the Glacier remote is stored in git. So to make another
repository use the same Glacier remote is easy:

        # cd /media/usb/annex
        # git pull laptop
        # git annex initremote glacier
        initremote glacier (gpg) ok

Now the remote can be used like any other remote.

        # git annex move my_cool_big_file --to glacier
        copy my_cool_big_file (gpg) (checking glacier...) (to glacier...) ok

But, when you try to get a file out of Glacier, it'll queue a retrieval
job:

	# git annex get my_cool_big_file
	get my_cool_big_file (from glacier...) (gpg)
	glacier: queued retrieval job for archive 'GPGHMACSHA1--862afd4e67e3946587a9ef7fa5beb4e8f1aeb6b8'
	  Recommend you wait up to 4 hours, and then run this command again.
	failed

Like it says, you'll need to run the command again later. Let's remember to
do that:

	# at now + 4 hours
	at> git annex get my_cool_big_file

Another oddity of Glacier is that git-annex is never entirely sure
if a file is still in Glacier. Glacier inventories take hours to retrieve,
and even when retrieved do not necessarily represent the current state.

So, git-annex plays it safe, and avoids trusting the inventory:

	# git annex copy important_file --to glacier
	copy important_file (gpg) (checking glacier...) (to glacier...) ok
	# git annex drop important_file
	drop important_file (gpg) (checking glacier...)
	  Glacier's inventory says it has a copy.
	  However, the inventory could be out of date, if it was recently removed.
	  (Use --trust-glacier if you're sure it's still in Glacier.)
	
	(unsafe) 
	  Could only verify the existence of 0 out of 1 necessary copies

Like it says, you can use `--trust-glacier` if you're sure
Glacier's inventory is correct and up-to-date.

A final potential gotcha with Glacier is that glacier-cli keeps a local
mapping of file names to Glacier archives. If this cache is lost, or
you want to retrieve files on a different box than the one that put them in
glacier, you'll need to use `glacier vault sync` to rebuild this cache.

See [[special_remotes/Glacier]] for details.
