.\" Process this file with
.\" Copyright 2006 by Troy Heber - taken directly from svn-fast-backup
.\" Copyright (c) 2006 CollabNet.
.\" Permission is granted to everyone to use and distribute this work,
.\" without limitation, modified or unmodified, in any way, for any purpose.
.\" groff -man -Tascii svn-fast-backup.1
.\"
.TH svn\-fast\-backup 1  "2006-11-09"
.SH NAME
svn\-fast\-backup \- very fast backup for Subversion fsfs repositories.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B svn\-fast\-backup 
.RB [ \-q ]
.RB [ \-k {\fIN\fR|\fIall\fR}]
.RB [ \-f ]
.RB [ \-t ]
.RB [ \-s ]
.I repos_path
.I backup_dir
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B svn\-fast\-backup
uses
.B rsync
snapshots for very fast backup of a Subversion
.B fsfs
repository at
.I repos_path
to
.IR backup_dir / repos-rev ,
the latest revision number in the repository.  Multiple
.B fsfs
backups share data via hardlinks, so old backups are almost free, since
a newer revision of a repository is almost a complete superset of an
older revision.
.PP
This is good for replacing incremental log-dump+restore-style backups
because it is just as space-conserving and even faster; there is no
inter-backup state (old backups are essentially caches); each backup
directory is self-contained.  It has the same command-line interface as
.BR svn\-hot\-backup (1)
(if you use 
.BR \-\-force ),
but only works for
.B fsfs
repositories.
.PP
.B svn\-fast\-backup
keeps 64 backups by default and deletes backups older than these; this
can be adjusted with the
.B \-k
option.
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Shows some brief help text.
.TP
.BR \-q ", " \-\-quiet
Quieter-than-usual operation.
.TP
.BR \-k ", " \-\-keep=\fIN\fR
Keep a specified number of backups; the default is to keep 64.
.TP
.BR \-k ", " \-\-keep=all
Do not delete any old backups at all.
.TP
.BR \-f ", " \-\-force
Make a new backup even if one with the current revision exists.
.TP
.BR \-t ", " \-\-trace
Show actions.
.TP
.BR \-s ", " \-\-simulate
Don't perform actions.
.\"
.SH AUTHOR
Voluntary contributions made by many individuals.  Copyright \(co 2006 CollabNet.
