.\" Copyright (c) 2010-2011 Benjamin Drung <bdrung@debian.org>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and/or distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH DH_XUL-EXT "1" "October 2011" "dh_xul-ext" "mozilla-devscripts suite"
.SH NAME
dh_xul-ext \- calculate XUL extension dependencies
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dh_xul-ext
[\fIoptions\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B dh_xul-ext
is a helper tool for packaging XUL extensions. It calculates the supported
XUL applications for the packages that contain an install.rdf file. It will set
the substitution variables xpi:Depends, xpi:Recommends, xpi:Breaks,
xpi:Enhances, and xpi:Provides. Unknown options will be ignored.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Display a brief help message.
.TP
\fB\-a\fR, \fB\-\-all\fR
Expand substvars to all known XUL applications. If this parameter is not
provided, substvars will only be expanded to the XUL applications that are
available on your distribution. Use this parameter if you want to create a
package that can be installed on all Debian-based systems without recompiling.
.TP
\fB\-p\fR \fIpackage\fP, \fB\-\-package\fR=\fIpackage\fP
Calcalate the substvars only for the specified package. If this parameter is not
provided, all package listed in the control file will be processed.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Print more information.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.BR DH_XUL_EXT_VENDOR
The vendor (for example, \fBDebian\fR or \fBUbuntu\fR) that should be used for
calculating the dependencies.
.BR dpkg\-vendor (1)
will be used for determining the vendor if this environment variable is not set.
Setting the variable to \fBall\fR will have the same effect than calling
.BR dh_xul\-ext
with \fB\-\-all\fR.
.SH AUTHOR
Benjamin Drung <bdrung@debian.org>
