.\" Copyright (c) 2010-2011 Benjamin Drung <bdrung@debian.org>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and/or distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH INSTALL-XPI "1" "January 2010" "install-xpi" "mozilla-devscripts suite"
.SH NAME
install-xpi \- installs a xpi file into a Debian package
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B install-xpi
[\fIoptions\fP]
\fIxpi-file\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B install-xpi
is a helper tool for packaging XUL extensions. It installs the given xpi file
into the correct directory and creates the required links based on the data
in the install.rdf file.
It corrects the file permissions unless \fR\-\-preserve\-permissions\fP is
specified.

.B install-xpi
will create a configuration file in /etc if the XUL extension provides one or
more preferences files in defaults/preferences. The configuration file
contains only a description where to find the overridable preferences.
debian/package.js is used as configuration file instead if it
exists. The placeholder @INSTALLDIR@ is replaces by the actual installation
directory. You can disable the creation of a system configuration file with
\-\-disable\-system\-prefs.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-disable\-system\-prefs
Do not create a system preference file in /etc.
.TP
\fB\-x\fR \fIfile\fP, \fB\-\-exclude\fR=\fIfile\fP
The specified \fIfile\fP from the xpi file will not be installed. You can use
this parameter several times.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Display a brief help message.
.TP
\fB\-i\fR \fIdirectory\fP, \fB\-\-install-dir\fR=\fIdirectory\fP
The xpi file will be installed in the specified directory.
.I directory
must be an absolute path. Use this parameter with care.
.TP
\fB\-l\fR \fIdirectory\fP, \fB\-\-link\fR=\fIdirectory\fP
An additional link from the \fIdirectory\fP to the installation directory of
the extension will be created. You can use this parameter several times.
.TP
\fB\-p\fR \fIpackage\fP, \fB\-\-package\fR=\fIpackage\fP
The xpi file will be installed in the specified binary package. If this
parameter is not provided, the first binary package listed in debian/control
will be used.
.TP
.B \-\-preserve\-permissions
The permissions of the files in the xpi file will not be modified. If this
parameter is not provided,
.B install-xpi
will try to correct the permissions of the files to 644 (files that starts with
a shebang will be corrected to 755).
.TP
\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-remove-license-files\fR
Files with names like copying, licence, or license will not be installed.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Print more information.
.SH AUTHOR
Benjamin Drung <bdrung@debian.org>
