.\" Copyright (c) 2009-2011 Benjamin Drung <bdrung@debian.org>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and/or distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH MOZ-VERSION "1" "August 2009" "moz-version" "mozilla-devscripts suite"
.SH NAME
moz-version \- version format handling tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B moz-version
[\fIoptions\fP]
\fIaction\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B moz-version
is a tool for working with version string from the Mozilla suite.
It can compare Mozilla versions, convert Mozilla version into Debian upstream
version and the other way round.
.SH ACTIONS
.TP
\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-compare\fR \fIversion1 comparator version2\fP
Compare version numbers, where \fIcomparator\fP is a binary operator.
\fBmoz-version\fP returns success (zero result) if the specified condition is
satisfied, and failure (non-zero result) otherwise. The comparator must be one
of \fBlt le eq ne ge gt\fP.
.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-to\-deb\fR \fIversion\fP
Converts Mozilla \fIversion\fP into a Debian upstream version. For a full
Debian version you have to add a revision.
.TP
\fB\-m\fR, \fB\-\-to\-moz\fR \fIversion\fP
Converts Debian \fIversion\fP into a Mozilla version. The Debian revision and
the epoch will be stripped away.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Display a brief help message.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-silent\fR
Do not print anything and die silent on errors.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Print more information.
.SH AUTHOR
Benjamin Drung <bdrung@debian.org>
