.\" Copyright (c) 2010-2011 Benjamin Drung <bdrung@debian.org>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and/or distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.TH XPI-REPACK "1" "March 2010" "xpi-repack" "mozilla-devscripts suite"
.SH NAME
xpi-repack \- repack a xpi file into a tarball
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xpi-repack
[\fIoptions\fP]
\fIxpi-file\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B xpi-repack
is a helper tool for packaging XUL extensions. It repacks the given xpi file
into a proper tarball that can be used as source tarball for the Debian package.
It is designed to work with uscan. Here is an example for debian/watch:

version=3
.br
ftp://ftp.mozilla.org/pub/mozilla.org/addons/<id>/<package>-([\\d\\.]+)\-.*\\.xpi debian xpi-repack
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Display a brief help message.
.TP
\fB\-p\fR \fIpackage\fP, \fB\-\-package\fR=\fIpackage\fP
The \fIpackage\fP name will be used for naming the resulting tarball. If this
parameter is not provided, the source package name in debian/control will be
used.
.TP
\fB\-u\fR \fIversion\fP, \fB\-\-upstream\-version\fR=\fIversion\fP
The \fIversion\fP will be used for naming the resulting tarball. You have to
specify this parameter.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Print more information.
.SH AUTHOR
Benjamin Drung <bdrung@debian.org>
