.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH ICONVERT 1 "May 19, 2012"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
iconvert \- copy images with format conversions and other alterations
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B iconvert
.RI [ options ] " inputfile outputfile"
.br
.B iconvert
.RI [ options ] " --inplace files" ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\" TeX users may be more comfortable with the \fB<whatever>\fP and
.\" \fI<whatever>\fP escape sequences to invode bold face and italics,
.\" respectively.
The \fBiconvert\fP program will read an image (from any file format
for which an ImageInput plugin can be found) and then write the image
to a new file (in any format for which an ImageOutput plugin can be
found). In the process, iconvert can optionally change the file format
or data format (for example, converting floating-point data to 8-bit
integers), apply gamma correction, switch between tiled and scanline
orientation, or alter or add certain metadata to the image.
.PP
The iconvert utility is invoked as follows:

.B iconvert
.RI [ options ] " input output"

Where input and output name the input image and desired output
filename. The image files may be of any format recognized by
OpenImageIO (i.e., for which ImageInput plugins are available). The
file format of the output image will be inferred from the file
extension of the output filename (e.g., "foo.tif" will write a TIFF
file).
.PP
Alternately, any number of files may be specified as follows:

.B iconvert
.RI [ options ] " --inplace file1 file2" ...

When the \-\-inplace option is used, any number of file names >= 1 may be
specified, and the image conversion commands are applied to each file
in turn, with the output being saved under the original file
name. This is useful for applying the same conversion to many files,
or simply if you want to replace the input with the output rather than
create a new file with a different name.
.PP
For a complete description, see
.IR /usr/share/doc/libopenimageio-dev/openimageio.pdf.gz .
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-help
Print help message
.TP
.B \-v
Verbose status messages
.TP
.BI \-\-threads\  %d
Number of threads (default 0 == #cores)
.TP
.BI \-d\  %s
Set the output data format to one of:
.br
uint8, sint8, uint10, uint12, uint16, sint16, half, float, double
.TP
.BI \-g\  %f
Set gamma correction (default = 1)
.TP
.BI \-\-tile\  %d\ %d
Output as a tiled image
.TP
.B \-\-scanline
Output as a scanline image
.TP
.BI \-\-compression\  %s
Set the compression method (default = same as input)
.TP
.BI \-\-quality\  %d
Set the compression quality, 1-100
.TP
.B \-\-no\-copy\-image
Do not use ImageOutput copy_image functionality (dbg)
.TP
.B \-\-adjust\-time
Adjust file times to match DateTime metadata
.TP
.BI \-\-caption\  %s
Set caption (ImageDescription)
.TP
.BI \-\-keyword\  %s
Add a keyword
.TP
.B \-\-clear\-keywords
Clear keywords
.TP
.BI \-\-attrib\  %s\ %s
Set a string attribute (name, value)
.TP
.BI \-\-orientation\  %d
Set the orientation
.TP
.B \-\-rotcw
Rotate 90 deg clockwise
.TP
.B \-\-rotccw
Rotate 90 deg counter-clockwise
.TP
.B \-\-rot180
Rotate 180 deg
.TP
.B \-\-inplace
Do operations in place on images
.TP
.B \-\-sRGB
This file is in sRGB color space
.TP
.B \-\-separate
Force planarconfig separate
.TP
.B \-\-contig
Force planarconfig contig
.TP
.B \-\-no\-clobber
Do no overwrite existing files
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR idiff (1),
.BR igrep (1),
.BR iinfo (1),
.BR iprocess (1),
.BR iv (1),
.BR maketx (1),
.BR oiiotool (1).
.SH AUTHOR
OpenImageIO was written by Larry Gritz and the other authors and contributors.
.PP
This manual page was written by IRIE Shinsuke <irieshinsuke@yahoo.co.jp>,
for the Debian project (and may be used by others).
