.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH IGREP 1 "May 19, 2012"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
igrep \- search images for matching metadata
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B igrep
.RI [ options ] " pattern files" ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\" TeX users may be more comfortable with the \fB<whatever>\fP and
.\" \fI<whatever>\fP escape sequences to invode bold face and italics,
.\" respectively.
The \fBigrep\fP utility is invoked as follows:

.B igrep
.RI [ options ] " pattern filename" ...

Where pattern is a POSIX.2 regular expression (just like the
Unix/Linux \fBgrep\fP(1) command), and filename (and any following names)
specify images or directories that should be searched. An image file
will "match" if any of its metadata contains values contain
substring that are recognized regular expression. The image files may
be of any format recognized by OpenImageIO (i.e., for which ImageInput
plugins are available).
.PP
Example:

.nf
$ igrep Jack *.jpg
bar.jpg: Keywords = Carly; Jack
foo.jpg: Keywords = Jack
test7.jpg: ImageDescription = Jack on vacation
.fi
.PP
For a complete description, see
.IR /usr/share/doc/libopenimageio-dev/openimageio.pdf.gz .
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-help
Print help message
.TP
.B \-i
Ignore upper/lower case distinctions
.TP
.B \-v
Invert match (select non-matching files)
.TP
.B \-E
Pattern is an extended regular expression
.TP
.B \-f
Match against file name as well as metadata
.TP
.B \-l
List the matching files (no detail)
.TP
.B \-r
Recurse into directories
.TP
.B \-d
Print directories (when recursive)
.TP
.B \-a
Search all subimages of each file
.TP
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR iconvert (1),
.BR idiff (1),
.BR iinfo (1),
.BR iprocess (1),
.BR iv (1),
.BR maketx (1),
.BR oiiotool (1).
.SH AUTHOR
OpenImageIO was written by Larry Gritz and the other authors and contributors.
.PP
This manual page was written by IRIE Shinsuke <irieshinsuke@yahoo.co.jp>,
for the Debian project (and may be used by others).
