.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH MAKETX 1 "May 19, 2012"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
maketx \- convert images to tiled, MIP-mapped textures
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B maketx
.RI [ options ] " files" ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\" TeX users may be more comfortable with the \fB<whatever>\fP and
.\" \fI<whatever>\fP escape sequences to invode bold face and italics,
.\" respectively.
The \fBmaketx\fP program will read an image (from any file format for
which an ImageInput plugin can be found) and then write it in a form
in which it will have high performance when used by
TextureSystem. This involves converting it to tiled (versus scanline)
orientation, writing multiple subimages at different resolutions
(MIP-map), and setting a variety of header or metadata fields
appropriately for texture maps.
.PP
The maketx utility is invoked as follows:

.B maketx
.RI [ options ] " input" ... " -o output"

Where input and output name the input image and desired output
filename. The input files may be of any image format recognized by
OpenImageIO (i.e., for which ImageInput plugins are available). The
file format of the output image will be inferred from the file
extension of the output filename (e.g., "foo.tif" will write a TIFF
file).
.PP
For a complete description, see
.IR /usr/share/doc/libopenimageio-dev/openimageio.pdf.gz .
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-help
Print help message
.TP
.BI \-v
Verbose status messages
.TP
.BI \-o\  %s
Output filename
.TP
.BI \-\-threads\  %d
Number of threads (default 0 == #cores)
.TP
.BI \-u
Update mode
.TP
.BI \-\-format\  %s
Specify output file format (default: guess from extension)
.TP
.BI \-\-nchannels\  %d
Specify the number of output image channels.
.TP
.BI \-d\  %s
Set the output data format to one of:
.br
uint8, sint8, uint16, sint16, half, float
.TP
.BI \-\-tile\  %d\ %d
Specify tile size
.TP
.BI \-\-separate
Use planarconfig separate (default: contiguous)
.TP
.BI \-\-fov\  %f
Field of view for envcube/shadcube/twofish
.TP
.BI \-\-fovcot\  %f
Override the frame aspect ratio. Default is width/height.
.TP
.BI \-\-wrap\  %s
Specify wrap mode (black, clamp, periodic, mirror)
.TP
.BI \-\-swrap\  %s
Specific s wrap mode separately
.TP
.BI \-\-twrap\  %s
Specific t wrap mode separately
.TP
.BI \-\-resize
Resize textures to power of 2 (default: no)
.TP
.BI \-\-noresize
Do not resize textures to power of 2 (deprecated)
.TP
.BI \-\-filter\  %s
Select filter for resizing (default: box)
.br
(choices: box triangle gaussian catrom blackman-harris sinc lanczos3 radial-lanczos3 mitchell bspline disk)
.TP
.BI \-\-nomipmap
Do not make multiple MIP-map levels
.TP
.BI \-\-checknan
Check for NaN/Inf values (abort if found)
.TP
.BI \-\-fixnan\  %s
Attempt to fix NaN/Inf values in the image (options: none, black, box3)
.TP
.BI \-\-Mcamera\  %f\ %f\ %f\ %f\ %f\ %f\ %f\ %f\ %f\ %f\ %f\ %f\ %f\ %f\ %f\ %f
Set the camera matrix
.TP
.BI \-\-Mscreen\  %f\ %f\ %f\ %f\ %f\ %f\ %f\ %f\ %f\ %f\ %f\ %f\ %f\ %f\ %f\ %f
Set the camera matrix
.TP
.BI \-\-hash
Embed SHA-1 hash of pixels in the header
.TP
.BI \-\-prman\-metadata
Add prman specific metadata
.TP
.BI \-\-constant\-color\-detect
Create 1-tile textures from constant color inputs
.TP
.BI \-\-monochrome\-detect
Create 1-channel textures from monochrome inputs
.TP
.B \-\-opaque-detect
Drop alpha channel that is always 1.0
.TP
.BI \-\-stats
Print runtime statistics
.TP
.BI \-\-mipimage\  %s
Specify an individual MIP level
.SS Basic modes (default is plain texture):
.TP
.BI \-\-shadow
Create shadow map
.TP
.BI \-\-envlatl
Create lat/long environment map
.TP
.BI \-\-envcube
Create cubic env map (file order: px, nx, py, ny, pz, nz) (UNIMP)
.SS Color Management Options (OpenColorIO DISABLED)
.TP
.BI \-\-colorconvert\  %s\ %s
Apply a color space conversion to the image. If the output color space is not the same bit depth as input color space, it is your responsibility to set the data format to the proper bit depth using the \-d option.
.br
(choices: linear, sRGB, Rec709)
.TP
.BI \-\-unpremult
Unpremultiply before color conversion, then premultiply after the color conversion.  You'll probably want to use this flag if your image contains an alpha channel.
.SS Configuration Presets
.TP
.BI \-\-prman
Use PRMan-safe settings for tile size, planarconfig, and metadata.
.TP
.BI \-\-oiio
Use OIIO-optimized settings for tile size, planarconfig, metadata, and constant-color optimizations.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR iconvert (1),
.BR idiff (1),
.BR igrep (1),
.BR iinfo (1),
.BR iprocess (1),
.BR iv (1),
.BR oiiotool (1).
.SH AUTHOR
OpenImageIO was written by Larry Gritz and the other authors and contributors.
.PP
This manual page was written by IRIE Shinsuke <irieshinsuke@yahoo.co.jp>,
for the Debian project (and may be used by others).
