.TH UPDATE\-PASSWD 8 "Debian tools" "DEBIAN"
.SH NAME
update\-passwd \- safely update /etc/passwd, /etc/shadow and /etc/group
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B update\-passwd
.RI [ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B update\-passwd
handles updates of /etc/passwd, /etc/shadow and /etc/group on running Debian
systems.
It compares the current files to master copies, distributed in the
base\-passwd package, and updates all entries in the global system range (that
is, 0\(en99).
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.B update\-passwd
follows the usual GNU command line syntax, with long
options starting with two dashes (\(oq\-\(cq).
.TP
.BR \-p ,\  \-\-passwd\-master=FILE
Use FILE as the master copy of the passwd database.
The default value is
.IR /usr/share/base\-passwd/passwd.master .
.TP
.BR \-g ,\  \-\-group\-master=FILE
Use FILE as the master copy of the group database.
The default value is
.IR /usr/share/base\-passwd/group.master .
.TP
.BR \-P ,\  \-\-passwd=FILE
Use FILE as the system passwd database.
The default value is
.IR /etc/passwd .
.TP
.BR \-S ,\  \-\-shadow=FILE
Use FILE as the system shadow database.
The default value is
.IR /etc/shadow .
.TP
.BR \-G ,\  \-\-group=FILE
Use FILE as the system group database.
The default value is
.IR /etc/group .
.TP
.BR \-s ,\  \-\-sanity\-check
Only perform sanity-checks but don't do anything.
.TP
.BR \-v ,\  \-\-verbose
Give detailed information about what we are doing.
A second \-v gives additional detail.
.TP
.BR \-n ,\  \-\-dry\-run
Don't do anything but only show what we would do.
.TP
.BR \-L ,\  \-\-no\-locking
Don't attempt to lock the account database.
This should only be used for debugging purposes.
.B I repeat: do not do this unless you are really sure you need this!
.TP
.BR \-h ,\  \-\-help
Show a summary of how to use
.BR update\-passwd .
.TP
.BR \-V ,\  \-\-version
Show the version number
.SH BUGS
At this moment
.B update\-passwd
does not verify the shadow-file.
It should check if the entries in the passwd are also in shadow
and vice versa, and that passwords are not present in both files.
.SH AUTHOR
Wichert Akkerman <wakkerma@debian.org>
.PP
This program was written for the Debian project, and is
copyright 1999\(en2002 Wichert Akkerman and
copyright 2002, 2003 Colin Watson.
It is distributed under version 2 of the GNU General Public License.
