=head1 NAME

dpkg-reconfigure - reconfigure an already installed package

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 dpkg-reconfigure [options] packages

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<dpkg-reconfigure> reconfigures packages after they have already been
installed. Pass it the names of a package or packages to reconfigure.

This has the same effect as re-installing the package, basically. I hope
one day this will be called by dpkg --reconfigure 

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-f>I<type>, B<--frontend=>I<type>

Select the frontend to use. The default frontend can be permanently changed
by:

 dpkg-reconfigure cdebconf

Note that if you normally have cdebconf set to use the noninteractive
frontend, dpkg-reconfigure will use the dialog frontend instead, so you
actually get to reconfigure the package.

=item B<-p>I<value>, B<--priority=>I<value>

Specify the minimum priority of question that will be displayed.
dpkg-reconfigure normally shows low priority questions no matter what your
default priority is.

=item B<--all>

Reconfigure all installed packages that use cdebconf. Warning: this may take
a long time.

=item B<-u>, B<--unseen-only>

By default, all questions are shown, even if they have already been
answered. If this parameter is set though, only questions that have not yet
been seen will be asked.

=item B<--force>

Force dpkg-reconfigure to reconfigure a package even if the package is in an
inconsistent or broken state. Use with caution.

=item B<-h>, B<--help>

Display usage help.

=back

=cut

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<cdebconf(7)>

=cut

=head1 AUTHOR

Joey Hess <joeyh@debian.org>

=cut

=head1 HISTORY

This manpage was "borrowed" from debconf.

=cut

