I recently started experimenting with git annex, adding files that I've had
floating across several computers to repositories. During the testing I had
a few occasions where I wrecked a repository somehow, and decided to wipe it
and start anew (at this point there was no important files in them so I thought
this is the easiest way). Well, as it turns out this interacts badly with location
tracking, since now `git annex whereis` shows files residing in all those destroyed
repositories, all having same names as some existing repositories. This makes it hard
to follow whether a repo actually has a file, or was the file only seen in some dead
repo with the same name.

I planned on cleaning this up by looking up the UUIDs of the now stable, existing
repos and untrusting all the dead copies (they should effectively disappear from
git annex´s output then, right?), but I didn't find an easy way to look up the UUID
of the current repository (maybe this could be included in `git annex status`?)
I also noticed that untrust cannot remove the trust based on the UUID -- if I try
it I simply get "there is no git remote named "11908472-...", so I guess untrust
works with git remote names, which I find a bit confusing, since trust.log logs the
trust levels based on the UUID. I could just write into trust.log manually, but I'm
unsure how the changes would get propagated.

What should I do? As a related wishlist item I would ask for some additional mechanisms
for purging known-dead repositories from the location tracking database. And the ability
to look up the UUID of the current repo, and to use the UUID to specify repositories when
applicable (untrust and describe maybe).
