hi, 

i think of use git-annex as the backbone of a archival systems. at first point no distributed storage, just 1 node.
but now i run into the topic below ( deleted the "named" symlink of the "object" -- how to recover ?)

maybe someone can enlighten me...

thanks,
.ka

// about the version. ( debian-squeeze, bpo )

$ git-annex version
git-annex version: 3.20120629~bpo60+2
local repository version: 3
default repository version: 3
supported repository versions: 3
upgrade supported from repository versions: 0 1 2

// building up a testcase.

$ git init
Initialized empty Git repository in ...test2/.git/

$ git annex init
init  ok
(Recording state in git...)

$ echo "aaa" > 1.txt

$ echo "bbb" > 2.txt

$ git-annex add .
add 1.txt (checksum...) ok
add 2.txt (checksum...) ok
(Recording state in git...)

$ git commit -a -m "added 2 files"
fatal: No HEAD commit to compare with (yet)
fatal: No HEAD commit to compare with (yet)
[master (root-commit) fc2a5d7] added 2 files
 Committer: userhere user <bla@bla>
Your name and email address were configured automatically based
on your username and hostname. Please check that they are accurate.
...
 2 files changed, 2 insertions(+), 0 deletions(-)
 create mode 120000 1.txt
 create mode 120000 2.txt

// ok, so far standard. i have now 2 files - lets delete one.

$ rm 2.txt 
$ ls -l
lrwxrwxrwx 1 xp xp 176 24. Okt 22:55 1.txt -> .git/annex/objects/Z6/7q/SHA256-s4--17e682f060b5f8e47ea04c5c4855908b0a5ad612022260fe50e11ecb0cc0ab76/SHA256-s4--17e682f060b5f8e47ea04c5c4855908b0a5ad612022260fe50e11ecb0cc0ab76

// eek, delete of 2.txt was a bad idea (it was just the symlink) -- try to recover...

$ git-annex fix
$ git-annex fsck
fsck 1.txt (checksum...) ok
$ ls
1.txt

// still not here.. how to recover the link to 2.txt ???
// i still see the content of the file in the object folder
// if I want to use git-annex as the backend of a archival system, this is important.
