.\" Hey, Emacs!  This is an -*- nroff -*- source file.
.\" Adduser and this manpage are copyright 1995 by Ted Hajek
.\"
.\" This is free software; see the GNU General Public Lisence version 2
.\" or later for copying conditions.  There is NO warranty.
.TH "deluser.conf" 5 "Version VERSION" "Debian GNU/Linux"
.SH NAME
/etc/deluser.conf \- configuration file for 
.B deluser(8) 
and 
.BR delgroup(8) .
.SH DESCRIPTION
The file 
.I /etc/deluser.conf
contains defaults for the programs
.B deluser(8) 
and 
.BR delgroup(8) .
Each option takes the form
.IR option " = " value .
Double or single quotes are allowed around the value.  Comment lines
must have a hash sign (#) at the beginning of the line.

deluser(8) and delgroup(8) also read /etc/adduser.conf, see adduser.conf(8); settings in deluser.conf may overwrite settings made in adduser.conf.

The valid configuration options are:
.TP
\fBREMOVE_HOME\fP
Removes the home directory and mail spool of the user to be removed.
Value may be 0 (don't delete) or 1 (do delete).
.TP
\fBREMOVE_ALL_FILES\fP
Removes all files on the system owned by the user to be removed.
If this option is activated
.B REMOVE_HOME
has no effect. Values may be 0 or 1.
.TP
\fBBACKUP\fP
If
.B REMOVE_HOME
or
.B REMOVE_ALL_FILES
is activated all files are backuped before they are removed. The backup
file that is created defaults to username.tar(.gz|.bz2) in the
directory specified by the
.B BACKUP_TO
option. The compression method is chosen to the best that is available.
Values may be 0 or 1.
.TP
\fBBACKUP_TO\fP
If
.B BACKUP
is activated,
.B BACKUP_TO
specifies the directory the backup is written to. Default is the
current directory.
.TP
\fBNO_DEL_PATHS\fP
A list of regular expressions, space separated. All files to be
deleted in course of deleting home directories or deleting files owned
by the user to be deleted are checked against each of these regular
expressions. If a match is detected, the file is not deleted. Defaults
to a list of system directories, leaving only /home.

In other words: By default only files below /home belonging to that specific user are going to be deleted.

.TP
\fBONLY_IF_EMPTY\fP
Only delete a group if there are no user who belong to this group. Defaults to 0.
.TP
\fBEXCLUDE_FSTYPES\fP
A regular expression which describes all file systems which should be excluded when looking for files of a user to be deleted. Defaults to "(proc|sysfs|usbfs|devpts|tmpfs|afs)".

.SH FILES
.I /etc/deluser.conf
.SH SEE ALSO
deluser(8), delgroup(8), adduser.conf(5)
