.TH "add-apt-repository" "1"
.SH NAME
add-apt-repository \- Adds a repository into the 
/etc/apt/sources.list or /etc/apt/sources.list.d 
or removes an existing one
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B add-apt-repository \fI[OPTIONS]\fR \fIREPOSITORY\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B add-apt-repository
is a script which adds an external APT repository to either
/etc/apt/sources.list or a file in /etc/apt/sources.list.d/ 
or removes an already existing repository.

The options supported by add-apt-repository are:

.B -h, --help
Show help message and exit

.B -r, --remove
Remove the specified repository

.B -y, --yes
Assume yes to all queries

.B -k, --keyserver
Use a custom keyserver URL instead of the default


.SH REPOSITORY STRING
\fIREPOSITORY\fR can be either a line that can be added directly to
sources.list(5), or in the form ppa:<user>/<ppa-name> for adding Personal
Package Archives.

In the first form, \fIREPOSITORY\fR will just be appended to 
/etc/apt/sources.list.

In the second form, ppa:<user>/<ppa-name> will be expanded to the full deb line
of the PPA and added into a new file in the /etc/apt/sources.list.d/
directory.
The GPG public key of the newly added PPA will also be downloaded and
added to apt's keyring.

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBsources.list\fR(5)

.SH COPYRIGHT
This manual page was written by Chow Loong Jin <hyperair@gmail.com> for the
Debian system (but may be used by others). Permission is granted to copy,
distribute and/or modify this document under the terms of the GNU General Public
License, Version 2 or any later version published by the Free Software
Foundation.

On Debian systems, the complete text of the GNU General Public License can be
found in /usr/share/common-licenses.
