.TH "h5ls" 1
.SH NAME
h5ls \- Prints information about a file or dataset. 
.SH SYNOPSIS
h5ls [OPTIONS] file [OBJECTS...] 
.SH DESCRIPTION
h5ls prints selected information about file objects in the specified format. 
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h
or
.B \-?   
or  
.B \-\-help
Print a usage message and exit. 
.TP
.B \-a   
or  
.B \-\-address
Print addresses for raw data. 
.TP
.B \-d   
or  
.B \-\-data
Print the values of datasets. 
.TP
.B \-e   
or  
.B \-\-errors
Show all HDF5 error reporting. 
.TP
.B \-f   
or  
.B \-\-full
Print full path names instead of base names. 
.TP
.B \-g   
or  
.B \-\-group
Show information about a group, not its contents. 
.TP
.B \-l   
or  
.B \-\-label
Label members of compound datasets. 
.TP
.B \-r   
or  
.B \-\-recursive
List all groups recursively, avoiding cycles. 
.TP
.B \-s   
or  
.B \-\-string
Print 1-bytes integer datasets as ASCII. 
.TP
.B \-S   
or  
.B \-\-simple
Use a machine-readable output format. 
.TP
.B \-wN   
or  
.B \-\-width=N
Set the number of columns of output. 
.TP
.B \-v   
or  
.B \-\-verbose
Generate more verbose output. 
.TP
.B \-V   
or  
.B \-\-version
Print version number and exit. 
.TP
.B \-x   
or  
.B \-\-hexdump
Show raw data in hexadecimal format. 
.TP
.B file
The file name may include a printf(3C) integer format such as %%05d to open a file family. 
.TP
.B objects
Each object consists of an HDF5 file name optionally followed by a slash and an object name within the file (if no object is specified within the file then the contents of the root group are displayed). The file name may include a printf(3C) integer format such as "%05d" to open a file family. 
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\&\fIh5dump\fR\|(1), \fIh5diff\fR\|(1), \fIh5repart\fR\|(1),
\&\fIh5import\fR\|(1), \fIgif2h5\fR\|(1), \fIh52gif\fR\|(1), \fIh5perf\fR\|(1)
