.TH "h5repack" 1
.SH NAME
h5repack \- Copy an HDF5 file to a new file with or without compression/chunking
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B h5repack
.B -i
.I file1
.B -o
.I file2 
.RB [ -h ]
.RB [ -v ] 
.RB [ -f
.IR \'filter\' ]
.RB [ -l
.IR \'layout\' ]
.RB [ -m
.IR number ]
.RB [ -e
.IR file ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B h5repack
is a command line tool that applies HDF5 filters to a input 
file
.IR file1 ,
saving the output in a new file, 
.IR file2 .
.P
.I \'filter\'
is a string with the format
	<list of objects> : <name of filter> = <filter parameters>.
.P
.I <list of objects>
is a comma separated list of object names meaning 
apply compression only to those objects. If no object names are 
specified, the filter is applied to all objects.
.P
.I <name of filter>
can be: 
    GZIP, to apply the HDF5 GZIP filter (GZIP compression)
    SZIP, to apply the HDF5 SZIP filter (SZIP compression)
    SHUF, to apply the HDF5 shuffle filter
    FLET, to apply the HDF5 checksum filter
    NONE, to remove the filter
.P
.I <filter parameters>
contains the optional compression information:
    SHUF (no parameter) 
    FLET (no parameter) 
    GZIP=<deflation level> from 1-9 
    SZIP=<pixels per block,coding> (pixels per block is a even number in 
2-32 and coding method is 'EC' or 'NN') 
.P
.I \'layout\' is a string with the format
    <list of objects> : <layout type> 
.P
.I <list of objects>
is a comma separated list of object names, meaning 
that layout information is supplied for those objects. If no object 
names are specified, the layout is applied to all objects.
.P
.I <layout type> 
can be: 
    CHUNK, to apply chunking layout 
    COMPA, to apply compact layout 
    CONTI, to apply continuous layout 
.P
.I <layout parameters>
is present for the chunk case only it is the 
chunk size of each dimension:
.I <dim_1 x dim_2 x ... dim_n>
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.IR file1 , file2
The input and output HDF5 files
.TP
.B -h
Print a help message
.TP
\fB-f\fR \fIfilter\fR
Filter type
.TP
\fB-l\fR \fIlayout\fR
Layout type
.TP
.B -v
Verbose mode. Print output (list of objects in the file, filters and 
layout applied).
.TP
\fB-e\fR \fIfile\fR
File with the
.B -f
and
.B -l 
options (only filter and layout flags)
.TP
\fB-d\fR \fIdelta\fR
Print only differences that are greater than the limit
.IR delta .
.I delta 
must be a positive number. The comparison criterion is whether the 
absolute value of the difference of two corresponding values is greater 
than
.I delta
(e.g., |\fIa\fR-\fIb\fR| > 
.IR delta ,
where \fIa\fR is a value in
.I file1
and \fIb\fR is a value in 
.IR file2 ).
.TP
\fB-m\fR \fInumber\fR
Do not apply the filter to objects which size in bytes is smaller 
than number. If no size is specified a minimum of 1024 bytes is assumed.
.SH EXAMPLES
Apply GZIP compression to all objects in
.I file1
and save the output in 
.IR file2 :
.P
	h5repack -i file1 -o file2 -f GZIP=1 -v
.P
Apply SZIP compression only to object
.IR \'dset1\' :
.P
	h5repack -i file1 -o file2 -f dset1:SZIP=8,NN -v
.P
Apply a chunked layout to objects
.I \'dset1\'
and
.IR \'dset2\' :
.P
	h5repack -i file1 -o file2 -l dset1,dset2:CHUNK=20x10 -v
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\&\fIh5dump\fR\|(1), \fIh5ls\fR\|(1), \fIh5diff\fR\|(1),
\&\fIh5import\fR\|(1), \fIgif2h5\fR\|(1), \fIh52gif\fR\|(1),
\fIh5perf\fR\|(1), \fIh5repart\fR\|(1).
