.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii svm-scale.1
.\"
.TH svm-scale 1 "MAY 2006" Linux "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
svm-scale \- scale data to a restricted range as preprocessing for SVM training
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B svm-scale [ -l
.I lower
.B ] [ -u
.I upper
.B ] [ -y
.I y_upper
.B ] [ -s
.I save_filename
.B ] [ -r
.I restore_filename ]
.I datafilename
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B svm-scale
reads the given
.I datafilename
(a training or testing data file as specified in
.BR svm_train(1)
or
.BR svm_predict(1)
)
and scales all dimensions to the given ranges.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "-l lower"
.I lower
is the lowest (minimal) value allowed in each dimension.  It defaults to \-1.
.IP "-u upper"
.I upper
is the highest (maximal) value allowed in each dimension.  It defaults to 1.
.IP "-y y_lower"
.I y_lower
is a boolean value (0 or 1) indicating whether or not y-values (targets) should be scaled.  It defaults to 0.
.IP "-s save_filename"
.I save_filename
indicates the filename to save the scaled data to.
.IP "-r restore_filename"
.I restore_filename
indicates the filename reserved to hold the original (unscaled) data in case
there is a need to restore.
.SH FILES
.I datafilename
must be a training or testing dataset.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
No environment variables.

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
None documented; see Vapnik et al.
.SH BUGS
Please report bugs to the Debian BTS.
.SH AUTHOR
Chih-Chung Chang, Chih-Jen Lin <cjlin@csie.ntu.edu.tw>, Chen-Tse Tsai <ctse.tsai@gmail.com> (packaging)
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR svm-train (1),
.BR svm-predict (1)
