.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH EXIM_CONVERT4R4 8 "March 26, 2003"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.\" \(oqthis text is enclosed in single quotes\(cq
.\" \(lqthis text is enclosed in double quotes\(rq
.SH NAME
exim_convert4r4 \- Convert Exim configuration from v3 to v4 format
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B exim_convert4r4

.SH DESCRIPTION
This script is provided to assist in updating Exim configuration files.
It reads an Exim 3 configuration file on the standard input, and writes a
modified file on the standard output.
It also writes comments about what it has done to the standard error file.
It assumes that the input is a valid Exim 3 configuration file.
A typical call to the conversion script might be

.I exim_convert4r4  < /etc/exim/exim.conf  > /etc/exim4/exim4.conf.new

The output file
.B MUST
be checked and tested before trying to use it on a live system.
The conversion script is just an aid which does a lot of the \(lqgrunt
work\(rq.
It does not guarantee to produce an Exim 4 configuration that behaves
exactly the same as the Exim 3 configuration it reads.

Each option change in the new file is preceded by an identifying comment.
In fact, the conversion script tends to make quite a mess of your
configuration, and you should expect to go through it afterwards and tidy
it up by hand.

Unless you are running a very straightforward configuration, the automatic
conversion is likely to generate a non-optimal configuration.
You should not only check it thoroughly, but also run as many tests as you
can, to ensure that it is working as you expect.
In particular, you should test address routing, using \-bt and \-bv, and the
policy controls, using \-bh.
If possible, you should also do some live tests (i.e. send and receive
some messages) before putting Exim 4 into service.

If you have a very complicated configuration, it is possible that
exim_convert4r4 will break it in some situations, which is why thorough
testing is strongly recommended.

.SH BUGS
This manual page needs a major re-work. If somebody knows better groff
than us and has more experience in writing manual pages, any patches
would be greatly appreciated.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR exim (8),
the files in /usr/share/doc/exim4\-base/, especially Exim4.upgrade.gz

.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was stitched together from Exim4.upgrade by
Andreas Metzler <ametzler at downhill.at.eu.org>,
for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
