.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH UPDATE-EXIM4.CONF.TEMPLATE 8 "Feb 27, 2005" EXIM4
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.\" \(oqthis text is enclosed in single quotes\(cq
.\" \(lqthis text is enclosed in double quotes\(rq
.SH NAME
update\-exim4.conf.template \- Regenerate exim4 configuration file template.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B update\-exim4.conf.template [\-h|\-\-help] [\-n|\-\-nobackup] [\-o|\-\-output file] [\-r|\-\-run]

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I \-h|\-\-help
Show short help message and exit
.TP
.I \-n|\-\-nobackup
Overwrite existing file, instead of keeping it as
/etc/exim4/exim4.conf.template.bak.random-number
.TP
.I \-o|\-\-output file
Write output to file instead of /etc/exim4/exim4.conf.template.
.TP
.I \-r|\-\-run
Actually do something. If this option is not specified
.B update\-exim4.conf.template
will exit immediately. This option was introduced because
.B update\-exim4.conf.template
overwrites configuration files.

.SH DESCRIPTION
The script
.B update\-exim4.conf.template
regenerates the main configuration file template
.I /etc/exim4/exim4.conf.template
from the configuration snippets in the
.I /etc/exim4/conf.d
directory tree.
.PP
This process will overwrite all local changes in
.I /etc/exim4/exim4.conf.template
and might be useful if there are local changes in the
.I /etc/exim4/conf.d
directory tree, for example by a new mail related package dropping its
own configuration snippets in there.

.B update\-exim4.conf.template
ignores all files in the conf.d directory that have a filename which
does not consist only of letters, numbers, underscores and hyphens
([:alnum:]_\-), similar to
.B run\-parts(8).
For easy interaction with packages extending Exim additionally
/etc/exim4/conf.d/foo/bar.rul is used instead of
/etc/exim4/conf.d/foo/bar if it exists!

.SH ENVIRONMENT
If
.B CONFDIR
is set
.B update\-exim4.conf.template
will search for the input files below $CONFDIR/conf.d instead of
/etc/exim4/conf.d/ and will write the output to $CONFDIR/exim4.conf.template
instead of to /etc/exim4/exim4.conf.template (unless overridden with \-o or
\-\-output).


.SH BUGS
This manual page needs a major re-work. If somebody knows better groff
than us and has more experience in writing manual pages, any patches
would be greatly appreciated.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR exim4 (8),
/usr/share/doc/exim4\-base/ and for general notes and details about interaction
with debconf
/usr/share/doc/exim4\-base/README.Debian.gz

.SH AUTHOR
Marc Haber <mh+debian\-packages@zugschlus.de>
