.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH UPDATE-EXIM4.CONF 8 "Jun 25, 2005" EXIM4
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.\" \(oqthis text is enclosed in single quotes\(cq
.\" \(lqthis text is enclosed in double quotes\(rq
.SH NAME
update\-exim4.conf \- Generate exim4 configuration files.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B update\-exim4.conf [\-v|\-\-verbose] [\-h|\-\-help] [\-\-keepcomments] [\-\-removecomments] [\-o|\-\-output file]

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I \-v|\-\-verbose
Enable verbose mode
.TP
.I \-h|\-\-help
Show short help message and exit
.TP
.I \-\-keepcomments
Do not remove comment lines from the output file.
.TP
.I \-\-removecomments
Remove comment lines from the output file. [Default]
.TP
.I \-o|\-\-output file
Write output to file instead of /var/lib/exim4/config.autogenerated.
.TP
.I \-d|\-\-confdir directory
Read input from directory instead of /etc/exim4.

.SH DESCRIPTION
The script
.B update\-exim4.conf
generates the main configuration files
.I /var/lib/exim4/config.autogenerated
for
.B Exim v4
by merging the data in the template file
.I /etc/exim4/exim4.conf.template
or the ones in the
.I /etc/exim4/conf.d
directory tree respectively and
.I /etc/exim4/update\-exim4.conf.conf
to the output file
.I /var/lib/exim4/config.autogenerated.
.PP
If dc_use_split_config in /etc/exim4/update\-exim4.conf.conf specifies a split
configuration,
.B update\-exim4.conf
processes the /etc/exim4/conf.d subdirectories in the order main, acl,
router, transport, retry, rewrite and auth. Within each directory it takes
files in lexical sort order by file name. It concatenates all these files
and makes the debconf replacement described below.

If you are not using split configuration
.B update\-exim4.conf
concatenates
/etc/exim4/exim4.conf.localmacros
(if this file exists) and /etc/exim4/exim4.conf.template (in this order) and
makes the debconf replacement described below.

In either case, before outputting the result
to /var/lib/exim4/config.autogenerated, 
.B update\-exim4.conf
generates a number of exim configuration macros from the contents of
dc_something from /etc/exim4/update\-exim4.conf.conf and inserts them
into the configuration right after the definition of the exim
configuration macro UPEX4CmacrosUPEX4C (which is only used as
placeholder for this case). The macro definitions are bracketed
with .ifdef clauses to allow the local admin to override the values with
earlier definitions.
.B update\-exim4.conf
makes no other changes to the configuration.
This makes it very simple to make small changes to the configuration and
still have the benefits of debconf.

On the other hand if you don't want to manage exim4.conf with debconf
install your own handcrafted version as /etc/exim4/exim4.conf.
Exim will use this file if it exists and ignore the autogenerated one.
Additionally you might want to set
.I dc_eximconfig_configtype=none
in /etc/exim4/update\-exim4.conf.conf to stop debconf from asking you questions about exim4.

.B update\-exim4.conf
exits silently and does nothing if /etc/exim4/exim4.conf exists and \-o
was not used to direct the output to a different file than
/var/lib/exim4/config.autogenerated.

.B update\-exim4.conf
will only use files in the conf.d directory that have a filename which
consists only of letters, numbers, underscores and hyphens
([:alnum:]_\-), similar to
.B run\-parts(8).
Additionally,
.B update\-exim4.conf
will use /etc/exim4/conf.d/foo/bar.rul instead of
/etc/exim4/conf.d/foo/bar if the .rul file exists. This is meant to be
helpful for easy interaction with packages extending Exim.

If the new configuration will be written to
/var/lib/exim4/config.autogenerated, 
.B update\-exim4.conf
will check the validity of the freshly generated configuration. If
the new file is detected as invalid, update-exim4.conf leaves the old
/var/lib/exim4/config.autogenerated untouched and exits with an error.

However, there are still possible invalidities that can only be
detected at run time. This most notably applies to errors in
expressions that are expanded at run time.

If the new configuration will be written to some other file, no
validity checking occurs and that file will always be overwritten.

.SH EXAMPLES
You want to be able to check exim's queue as normal user: Generate a new
file, e.g. /etc/exim4/conf.d/main/40_local_mailq, containing only the line
.I queue_list_requires_admin = false

.SH NOTES
.B update\-exim4.conf
changes the file permissions of the output file to the value of the environment
variable CFILEMODE. If CFILEMODE is neither set in
/etc/exim4/update\-exim4.conf.conf nor in the environment it defaults to 0644.
Change this to 0640 if you are keeping sensitive information (LDAP credentials
et. al.) in there.

.SH CONFIGURATION VARIABLES
All lists given in configuration variables are semicolon-separated. In
the past, they used to be colon separated. This was changed to
semicolon separation to make specification of IPv6 addresses easier.
Backwards compatibility is preserved, so that old configurations using
colons as separators do still work. Colons are deprecated and might
stop working in a later release. If you need to specifiy a single IPv6
address in a field that is defined as a list of host names or IP
addresses, please prefix "<;" to explicitly specify the list separator
as a semicolon. Otherwise, the code cannot tell an IP address from a
colon-separated list of strange host names.

Using lookups like "dsearch;something" in update-exim4.conf.conf has
never been supported and does no longer work! If you need this, please
convert to directly setting the appropriate macros.

.B update\-exim4.conf
evaluates these patterns in
.B /etc/exim4/update\-exim4.conf.conf:
.TP
.I CFILEMODE
The octal file mode of the generated file.
.TP
.I dc_eximconfig_configtype
The main configuration type. Sets macro DC_eximconfig_configtype. The macro
usually contains a shorthand for one of the choices for the 
\(lqGeneral type of mail configuration\(rq debconf question (See
README.Debian).

.RS
.B  dc_eximconfig_configtype <-> debconf configtype mapping:
.PD 0.1
.TP
\(lqinternet\(rq
internet site; mail is sent and received directly using SMTP
.TP
\(lqsmarthost\(rq
mail sent by smarthost; received via SMTP or fetchmail
.TP
\(lqsatellite\(rq
mail sent by smarthost; no local mail
.TP
\(lqlocal\(rq
local delivery only; not on a network
.TP
\(lqnone\(rq
no configuration at this time
.PD
.RE

.TP
.I dc_hide_mailname
Boolean option that controls whether the local mailname in the headers of
outgoing mail should be hidden. (Only effective for \(lqsmarthost\(rq and
\(lqsatellite\(rq. Sets macro HIDE_MAILNAME.
.TP
.I dc_mailname_in_oh
Internal use only Boolean option that is set by the maintainer scripts
after adding the contents of /etc/mailname to the dc_other_hostnames
list. This is a transition helper since it wouldn't otherwise be
possible to see whether that domain name has been removed from
dc_other_hostnames on purpose. This is not used by update-exim4.conf,
and no macro is set.
.TP
.I ue4c_keepcomments
Boolean option that controls whether
.B update\-exim4.conf
strips the comments from the target configuration file (default) or
leaves them in. This can be overridden by the command line options
\-\-keepcomments and \-\-removecomments. The value is not written to an
exim macro.
.TP
.I dc_localdelivery
name of the default transport for local mail delivery. Defaults to mail_spool
if unset, use maildir_home for delivery to ~/Maildir/. Sets macro
LOCAL_DELIVERY.
.TP
.I dc_local_interfaces
List of IP addresses the Exim daemon should listen on. If this is left
empty, Exim listens on all interfaces. Sets macro
MAIN_LOCAL_INTERFACES only if there is a non-empty value.
.TP
.I dc_minimaldns
Boolean option to activate some option to minimize DNS lookups, if set to
\(lqtrue\(rq a macro DC_minimaldns is defined. If true, the macro
DC_minimaldns is set to 1, and the macro
MAIN_HARDCODE_PRIMARY_HOSTNAME is set to the appropriately
post-processes output of hostname \-\-fqdn.
.TP
.I dc_other_hostnames
is used to build the local_domains list, together with \(lqlocalhost\(rq.
This is the list of domains for which this machine should
consider itself the final destination. The local_domains list ends up
in the macro MAIN_LOCAL_DOMAINS.
.TP
.I dc_readhost
For \(lqsmarthost\(rq and \(lqsatellite\(rq it is possible to hide the local
mailname in the headers of outgoing mail and replace it with this value
instead, using rewriting. For \(lqsatellite\(rq only, this value is
also the host to send local mail to. Sets macro DCreadhost.
.TP
.I dc_relay_domains
is a list of domains for which we accept mail from anywhere on the
Internet but which are not delivered locally, e.g. because this machine
serves as secondary MX for these domains. Sets MAIN_RELAY_TO_DOMAINS.
.TP
.I dc_relay_nets
A list of machines for which we serve as smarthost. Please note that
127.0.0.1 and ::1 are always permitted to relay since /usr/lib/sendmail
is available anyway and relay control doesn't make sense here. Sets
macro MAIN_RELAY_NETS.
.TP
.I dc_smarthost
List of hosts to which all outgoing mail is passed to and that takes care
of delivering it. Each of the hosts is tried, in the order specified
(See exim specification, chapter 20.5). All deliveries go out to TCP
port 25 unless a different port is specified after the host name,
separated from the host name by two colons. Colons in IPv6 addresses need
to be doubled. If a port number follows, IP addresses may be enclosed in
brackets, which might be the only possibility to specify delivery to an
IPv6 address and a different port. Examples:
.br
.BR host.domain.example
deliver to host looked up on DNS, tcp/25
.br
.BR host.domain.example::587
deliver to host looked up on DNS, tcp/587
.br
.BR 192.168.2.4
deliver to IPv4 host, tcp/25
.br
.BR 192.168.2.4::587
deliver to IPv4 host, tcp/587
.br
.BR [192.168.2.4]::587
deliver to IPv4 host, tcp/587
.br
.BR 2001::0db8::f::4::::2
deliver to IPv6 host, tcp/25
.br
.BR [2001::0db8::f::4::::2]::587
deliver to IPv6 host, tcp/587
.br
This is used as value of the DCsmarthost macro.
.TP
.I dc_use_split_config
Boolean option that controls whether
.B update\-exim4.conf
uses /etc/exim4/exim4.conf.template (\(lqfalse\(rq) or the multiple files
below /etc/exim4/conf.d (\(lqtrue\(rq) as input. This does not set any
macros.
.TP
.I The macro MAIN_PACKAGE_VERSION is set to Debian's Version number of
the package being installed for convenient inclusion in the
configuration.

.SH RECOMMENDED USAGE
If you are running exim as daemon (as it is in the default setup of the
Debian packages) you should not invoke
.B update\-exim4.conf
directly when exim is running. For SMTP receiving or queue running,
exim forks, and the new processes would use the new configuration file,
while the original main exim daemon would still use the old configuration
file. You should use
.I invoke\-rc.d exim4 restart
instead.

.SH BUGS
This manual page needs a major re-work. If somebody knows better groff
than us and has more experience in writing manual pages, any patches
would be greatly appreciated.

.SH FILES
.LP
.TP
.B /var/lib/exim4/config.autogenerated
Exim's main configuration file
.LP
.TP
.B /etc/exim4/exim4.conf
Optional manually managed Exim main configuration file. Takes precedence over
debconf managed one if it exists.
.LP
.TP
.B /etc/exim4/update-exim4.conf.conf
Configuration file being written by exim4-config maintainer scripts,
which may be hand-edited, and is read as input by update-exim4.conf.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR exim (8),
.BR exim4-config_files(5),
/usr/share/doc/exim4\-base/ and for general notes and details about interaction
with debconf
/usr/share/doc/exim4\-base/README.Debian.gz

.SH AUTHOR
Andreas Metzler <ametzler at downhill.at.eu.org>
.br
Marc Haber <mh+debian-packages@zugschlus.de>
