.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH UPDATE-EXIM4DEFAULTS 8 "March 26, 2003" EXIM4
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.\" \(oqthis text is enclosed in single quotes\(cq
.\" \(lqthis text is enclosed in double quotes\(rq
.SH NAME
update\-exim4defaults \- Manage exim4 daemon default file.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B update\-exim4defaults
.I [ \-\-qflags flags ]
.I [ \-\-queuerunner combined|queueonly|separate|ppp|no|nodaemon ]
.I [ \-\-queuetime time ]
.I [ \-\-commonoptions options ]
.I [ \-\-queuerunneroptions options ]
.I [ \-\-smtplisteneroptions options ]
.I [ \-\-remove\-common options ]
.I [ \-\-remove\-queue options ]
.I [ \-\-remove\-smtp options ]
.I [ \-\-force|\-f ]
.I [ \-\-help|\-h ]
.I [ \-\-init ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B update\-exim4defaults
allows one to set run parameters for the
.B Exim
daemon in
.I /etc/default/exim4.
Its main purpose is for interaction with packages enhancing
.B Exim
like virus-scanners that need to change the way the exim daemon is started.
.PP

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I \-\-help|\-h
Print short usage instructions and exit.
.TP
.I \-\-qflags flags
Set qflags, special flags given to exim directly after the \(lq\-q\(rq. See
.B exim(8)
for more information.
.TP
.I \-\-queuerunner combined|queueonly|separate|ppp|no|nodaemon
Should the init script start one daemon that listens on the smtp port for
incoming connections and runs the queue at regular intervals
.I (combined)
, or should it start two separate daemons, one listening on the smtp port,
the other running the queue
.I (separate)
, or should the queue only be run by /etc/ppp/ip\-up.d/exim4
.I (ppp)
, or shouldn't we run the queue at all, for example if you'd rather do this
with
.B cron
? Or should we only start a queuerunner
.I (queueonly)
or no daemon at all
.I (nodaemon)
?
.TP
.I \-\-queuetime time
In which intervals should we run the queue? This passed as option
.I \-q<qflags>time
to Exim, e.g. \-q30m or \-qq1h.
.TP
.I \-\-commonoptions options
Options passed both to queue\-running and listening instances of Exim.
.TP
.I \-\-queuerunneroptions options
Options only passed to the instance of Exim running the queue.
.TP
.I \-\-smtplisteneroptions options
Options only passed to the instance of Exim listening on the SMTP port.
.TP
.I \-\-force|\-f
Without this option
.B update\-exim4defaults
exits with an error if at least one of the options \-\-queuetime,
\-\-commonoptions, \-\-queuerunneroptions or \-\-smtplisteneroptions is used and the
corresponding value in /etc/default/exim4 is
.I already
set to a nonempty value.
.TP
.I \-\-remove\-common option
Try to remove the given option from COMMONOPTIONS.
.TP
.I \-\-remove\-queue option
Try to remove the given option from QUEUERUNNEROPTIONS.
.TP
.I \-\-remove\-smtp option
Try to remove the given option from SMTPLISTENEROPTIONS.
.PP
The \-\-remove\-commands cannot be used at the same time as any of \-\-commonoptions,
\-\-queuerunneroptions or \-\-smtplisteneroptions. The \-\-remove\-commands will
additionally remove whitespace at the beginning and the end of the option and
exchange multiple spaces wi a single one.
.TP
.I \-\-init
create a default /etc/default/exim4 file and exit immediately. Unless
.I \-\-force
was also specified
.B update\-exim4defaults
exits (successfully) without doing anything if /etc/default/exim4 already
exists. All other options are ignored.

.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.I 0
change was successful or nothing needed to be done.
.TP
.I 1
generic error: wrong options, unreadable configuration file, etc.
.TP
.I 2
QUEUEINTERVAL was already set.
.TP
.I 4
COMMONOPTIONS was already set.
.TP
.I 8
QUEUERUNNEROPTIONS was already set.
.TP
.I 16
SMTPLISTENEROPTIONS was already set.
.TP
.I 32
QFLAGS was already set.
.TP
.I 64
\-\-remove\-something failed, i.e. the value of the option was not changed.
.PP
Exit codes 2 to 32 will be summed up, if more than one unsuccessful option was
given.

.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/default/exim4
The configuration file.
.TP
.I /etc/init.d/exim4
The Exim init\-script.
.TP
.I /etc/ppp/ip\-up.d/exim4
The queuerunner in this file also uses COMMONOPTIONS and QUEUERUNNEROPTIONS and
does not run if QUEUERUNNER=no.


.SH BUGS
This manual page needs a major re-work. If somebody knows better groff
than us and has more experience in writing manual pages, any patches
would be greatly appreciated.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR exim (8),
/usr/share/doc/exim4\-base/

.SH AUTHOR
Andreas Metzler <ametzler at downhill.at.eu.org>
