.TH "h5perf" 1
.SH NAME
h5perf \- Tests Parallel HDF5 performance. 
.SH SYNOPSIS
h5perf [-h | --help] 
.PP
h5perf [options] 
.SH DESCRIPTION
h5perf provides tools for testing the performance of the Parallel HDF5 library.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.IP HDF5_NOCLEANUP
If set, h5perf does not remove data files. (Default: Remove)
.IP HDF5_MPI_INFO
Must be set to a string containing a list of semi-colon separated key=value pairs for the MPI INFO object.
.IP HDF5_PARAPREFIX
Sets the prefix for paralllel output data files.
.SH OPTIONS
These terms are used as follows in this section:
.IP file
A filename
.IP size
A size specifier, expressed as an integer greater than or equal to 0 (zero) followed by a size indicator:
.RS
K for kilobytes (1024 bytes)
.RE
.RS
M for megabytes (1048576 bytes)
.RE
.RS
    G for gigabytes (1073741824 bytes)
.RE
.RS
Example: 37M specifies 37 megabytes or 38797312 bytes.
.IP N
An integer greater than or equal to 0 (zero)
.PP
.TP
.B \-h
or
.B
\-\-help
Prints a usage message and exits. 
.TP
.B \-a size
or
.B
\-\-align=size
Specifies the alignment of objects in the HDF5 file. (Default: 1) 
.TP
.B \-A api_list
or
.B
\-\-api=api_list
Specifies which APIs to test. api_list is a comma-separated list with the following valid values:
.RS
.IP phdf5
Parallel HDF5
.IP mpiio
MPI-I/O
.IP posix
POSIX
.IP
(Default: All APIs)
.RE
.IP
Example, \-\-api=mpiio,phdf5 specifies that the MPI I/O and parallel HDf5 APIs are to be monitored.
.TP
.B \-B size
or
.B
\-\-block-size=size
Specifies the block size within the transfer buffer. (Default: 128K)  Block size versus transfer buffer size: The transfer buffer size is the size of a buffer in memory. The data in that buffer is broken into block size pieces and written to the file.  Transfer block size is set by the -x (or --min-xfer-size) and -X (or --max-xfer-size) options.  The pattern in which the blocks are written to the file is described in the discussion of the -I (or --interleaved) option.
.TP
.B \-c
or
.B
\-\-chunk
    Creates HDF5 datasets in chunked layout. (Default: Off) 
.TP
.B \-C
or
.B
\-\-collective
Use collective I/O for the MPI I/O and Parallel HDF5 APIs.  (Default: Off, i.e., independent I/O)  If this option is set and the MPI-I/O and PHDF5 APIs are in use, all the blocks in each transfer buffer will be written at once with an MPI derived type.
.TP
.B \-d N
or
.B
\-\-num-dsetsN
Sets the number of datasets per file. (Default: 1) 
.TP
.B \-D debug_flags
or
.B
\-\-debug=debug_flags
Sets the debugging level. debug_flags is a comma-separated list of debugging flags with the following valid values:
.RS
.IP 1
Minimal debugging
.IP 2
Moderate debugging (not quite everything)
.IP 3
Extensive debugging (everything)
.IP 4
All possible debugging (the kitchen sink)
.IP r
Raw data I/O throughput information
.IP t
Times, in additions to throughputs
.IP v
Verify data correctness
.IP
(Default: No debugging)
.RE
.IP
Example: \-\-debug=2,r,t specifies to run a moderate level of debugging while collecting raw data I/O throughput information and verifying the correctness of the data.
.TP
.B \-e size
or
.B \-\-num-bytes=size
Specifies the number of bytes per process per dataset. (Default: 256K) 
.TP
.B \-F N
or
.B \-\-num-files=N
Specifies the number of files. (Default: 1) 
.TP
.B \-i N
or
.B \-\-num-iterations=N
Sets the number of iterations to perform. (Default: 1) 
.TP
.B \-I
or
.B \-\-interleaved
Sets interleaved block I/O.  (Default: Contiguous block I/O)

.IP
Interleaved vs. Contiguous blocks in a parallel environment:  When contiguous blocks are written to a dataset, the dataset is divided into m regions, where m is the number of processes writing separate portions of the dataset. Each process then writes data to its own region. When interleaved blocks are written to a dataset, space for the first block of the first process is allocated in the dataset, then space is allocated for the first block of the second process, etc., until space has been allocated for the first block of each process. Space is then allocated for the second block of the first process, the second block of the second process, etc.
.IP
For example, in the case of a 4 process run with 1M bytes-per-process, 256K transfer buffer size, and 64KB block size, 16 contiguous blocks per process would be written to the file in the manner
.RS
1111111111111111222222222222222233333333333333334444444444444444
.RE
.IP
while 16 interleaved blocks per process would be written to the file as     1234123412341234123412341234123412341234123412341234123412341234
.IP
If collective I/O is turned on, all of the four blocks per transfer buffer will be written in one collective I/O call.
.TP
.B \-m
or
.B \-\-mpi-posix
Sets use of MPI-posix driver for HDF5 I/O. (Default: MPI-I/O driver) 
.TP
.B \-n
or
.B \-\-no-fill
Specifies to not write fill values to HDF5 datasets. This option is supported only in HDF5 Release v1.6 or later.  (Default: Off, i.e., write fill values) 
.TP
.B \-o file
or
.B \-\-output=file
Sets the output file for raw data to file. (Default: None) 
.TP
.B \-p N
or
.B \-\-min-num-processes=N
Sets the minimum number of processes to be used. (Default: 1) 
.TP
.B \-P N
or
.B \-\-max-num-processes=N
Sets the maximum number of processes to be used.  (Default: All MPI_COMM_WORLDprocesses) 
.TP
.B \-T size
or
.B \-\-threshold=size
Sets the threshold for alignment of objects in the HDF5 file. (Default: 1) 
.TP
.B \-w
or
.B \-\-write-only
Performs only write tests, not read tests. (Default: Read and write tests) 
.TP
.B \-x size
or
.B \-\-min-xfer-size=size
Sets the minimum transfer buffer size. (Default: 128K) 
.TP
.B \-X size
or
.B \-\-max-xfer-size=size
Sets the maximum transfer buffer size. (Default: 1M) 
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\&\fIh5dump\fR\|(1), \fIh5ls\fR\|(1), \fIh5diff\fR\|(1),
\&\fIh5repart\fR\|(1), \fIgif2h5\fR\|(1), \fIh52gif\fR\|(1), \fIh5import\fR\|(1),
\&\fIh4toh5\fR\|(1), \fIh5toh4\fR\|(1)
