.\"
.\" Created by Ricardo Cárdenes Medina <ricardo@conysis.com>
.\" for the Debian 'sip' package
.\"
.TH SIP 1 "2010/02/02"
.SH NAME
sip \- generates C++/Python bindings
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sip
[\fI-h\fR] [\fI-V\fR] [\fI-a file\fR] [\fI-c dir\fR] [\fI-d file\fR] [\fI-e\fR] [\fI-g\fR] [\fI-I dir\fR] [\fI-j #\fR] [\fI-k\fR] [\fI-m file\fR] [\fI-o\fR] [\fI-p module\fR] [\fI-P\fR] [\fI-r\fR] [\fI-s suffix\fR] [\fI-t tag\fR] [\fI-w\fR] [\fI-x feature\fR] [\fI-z file\fR] [\fIfile\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B sip
takes a set of specification files and generates C++ code, documentation and build files.

The format of the needed specification file is similar to a C++ header.
sip includes run-time support for the generated code.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h
Show summary of options.
.TP
.B \-V
Display the sip version number
.TP
.B \-a file
The name of the QScintilla API file. If not indicated, it will not
be generated.
.TP
.B \-b file
The name of the build file. If not indicated, it will not be generated.
.TP
.B \-c dir
The name of the directory where generated source file will be put.
If not indicated, no code will be generated.
.TP
.B -d file
The name of the documentation file. If not indicated, no documentation will be generated.
.TP
.B -e
Enable support for exceptions. Disabled by default.
.TP
.B -g
Always release and reaquire the GIL.
.TP
.B -I dir
Directory where sip can search for included files.
.TP
.B -j number
Splits the generated code in \fInumber\fR files (1 by default). This
flag was added for parallel compilation on SMP machines.
.TP
.B -m file
The name of the XML export file. If not indicated, the file will not be generated.
.TP
.B -p module
Give the name of the consolidated module this module should be a part of.
.TP
.B -P
Enable the protected/public hack.
.TP
.B -r
Enable tracing on generated code.
.TP
.B -s suffix
The suffix used for generated C or C++ files (".c" or ".cpp" if none specified)
.TP
.B -t tag
The primary version to tag generate code for. You only can specify those
defined with a %Timeline directive. If you don't specify one, sip
will generate the latest available.
.TP
.B -w
Enable warning messages
.TP
.B -x feature
Disable a feature
.TP
.B -z file
The name of a file containing additional command line flags
.TP
.B file
The name of the file containing the specification. If you skip it,
sip will expect to be fed by stdin.
.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by Ricardo Javier Cardenes Medina <rcardenes@debian.org> and Torsten Marek <shlomme@debian.org>,
for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
