.\" Placed in the Public Domain by Sebastian Rittau <srittau@jroger.in-berlin.de>.
.Dd January 07, 2001
.Dt NSCD 8
.Os "GNU C Library 2.2"
.Sh NAME
.Nm nscd
.Nd name service caching daemon
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm nscd
.Op OPTION...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm Nscd
caches libc-issued requests to the Name Service. If retrieving
NSS data is fairly expensive,
.Nm nscd
is able to speed up consecutive access to the same data
dramatically and increase overall system performance.
.Nm Nscd
should be run at boot time by
.Pa /etc/init.d/nscd .
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl d , Fl -debug
Do not fork and display messages on the current tty.
.El
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl f , Fl -config-file Ar NAME
Read configuration data from
.Pa NAME .
For a description of the config file format, see nscd.conf(5).
.El
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl g , Fl -statistic
Print current configuration statistics.
.El
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl i , Fl -invalidate Ar TABLE
Invalidate the specified
.Pa TABLE ,
i. e. forget all data cached therein. This should be used if the
database storing this information has been changed.
.El
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl K , Fl -shutdown
Quit a running
.Nm nscd
process.
.El
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl S , Fl -secure Ar TABLE
Use a separate cache for each user.
.El
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl t , Fl -nthreads Ar NUMBER
Start
.Pa NUMBER
threads. This denotes the maximum number
of requests that can be handled simultaneously. The default is set
in the configuration file. (See nscd.conf(5).)
.El
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl ? , Fl -help
Print the list of available options.
.El
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl -usage
Print a short usage message.
.El
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl V , Fl -version
Print program version.
.El
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Ar /etc/nscd.conf
.Nm Nscd
configuration file. See nscd.conf(5) for more information.
.El
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Ar /etc/nsswitch.conf
Name Service Switch configuration. See nsswitch.conf(5)
for more information.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
GNU C Library info file,
.Xr nscd.conf 5 ,
.Xr nsswitch.conf 5
