.\" Copyright 1998 Marcus Brinkmann (brinkmd@debian.org)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Modified Mon Jul 12 18:40:00 1998 by Marcus Brinkmann (brinkmd@debian.org)
.TH TZSELECT 1 "12 June 1998" "Debian" "Debian Timezone Configuration"
.SH NAME
tzselect \- view timezones
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tzselect
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page explains how you can use the
.B "tzselect"
utility to view the installed timezone. It comes handy when you want to know what time it is in
other countries, or if you just wonder what timezones exist.

.B tzselect
is called without any parameters from the shell. It shows a list of about one dozen geographic
areas one can roughly recognize as continents. After choosing a geographic area by number, a
list of countries and cities in this area will be shown.

You can press the
.B Enter
key to reprint the list. To choose a timezone, just press the number left to it.
If your input is invalid, the list will be reprinted.

You may press
.B Ctrl-C
to interrupt the script at any time.

Note that
.B tzselect
will not actually change the timezone for you. Use 'dpkg-reconfigure tzdata' to achieve this.
.SH FILES
.I /usr/share/zoneinfo/
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR hwclock (8)
.SH AUTHOR
Copyright 1998 Marcus Brinkmann <brinkmd@debian.org>

Please see nroff source for legal notice.








