# NAME

git-annex-shell - Restricted login shell for git-annex only SSH access

# SYNOPSIS

git-annex-shell [-c] command [params ...]

# DESCRIPTION

git-annex-shell is a restricted shell, similar to git-shell, which
can be used as a login shell for SSH accounts.

Since its syntax is identical to git-shell's, it can be used as a drop-in
replacement anywhere git-shell is used. For example it can be used as a 
user's restricted login shell.

# COMMANDS

Any command not listed below is passed through to git-shell.

Note that the directory parameter should be an absolute path, otherwise
it is assumed to be relative to the user's home directory. Also the
first "/~/" or "/~user/" is expanded to the specified home directory.

* configlist directory

  This outputs a subset of the git configuration, in the same form as
  `git config --list`

* inannex directory [key ...]

  This checks if all specified keys are present in the annex, 
  and exits zero if so.

* dropkey directory [key ...]

  This drops the annexed data for the specified keys.

* recvkey directory key

  This runs rsync in server mode to receive the content of a key,
  and stores the content in the annex.

* sendkey directory key

  This runs rsync in server mode to transfer out the content of a key.

* transferinfo directory key

  This is typically run at the same time as sendkey is sending a key
  to the remote. Using it is optional, but is used to update
  progress information for the transfer of the key.

  It reads lines from standard input, each giving the number of bytes
  that have been received so far. 

* commit directory

  This commits any staged changes to the git-annex branch.
  It also runs the annex-content hook.

# OPTIONS

Most options are the same as in git-annex. The ones specific
to git-annex-shell are:

* --uuid=UUID

  git-annex uses this to specify the UUID of the repository it was expecting
  git-annex-shell to access, as a sanity check.

* -- fields=val fields=val.. --

  Additional fields may be specified this way, to retain compatability with
  past versions of git-annex-shell (that ignore these, but would choke
  on new dashed options).

  Currently used fields include remoteuuid=, associatedfile=,
  and direct=

# HOOK

After content is received or dropped from the repository by git-annex-shell,
it runs a hook, `.git/hooks/annex-content` (or `hooks/annex-content` on a bare
repository). The hook is not currently passed any information about what
changed.

# ENVIRONMENT

* GIT_ANNEX_SHELL_READONLY

  If set, disallows any command that could modify the repository.

* GIT_ANNEX_SHELL_LIMITED

  If set, disallows running git-shell to handle unknown commands.

* GIT_ANNEX_SHELL_DIRECTORY

  If set, git-annex-shell will refuse to run commands that do not operate
  on the specified directory.

# SEE ALSO

[[git-annex]](1)

git-shell(1)

# AUTHOR

Joey Hess <joey@kitenet.net>

<http://git-annex.branchable.com/>

Warning: Automatically converted into a man page by mdwn2man. Edit with care
